---
permalink: how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/
audit_date:
title: How the Cloud Reshapes TCO Analysis - CITO Research
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-12-20'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-03'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Cloud Overview
product_url: cloud-overview
---

### Introduction

As you evaluate the computing landscape at your company, you’ve probably
become used to calculating the total cost of ownership (TCO) of
computing assets based on buying and owning a piece of hardware or
software. You have some visibility into your landscape but probably far
less than you think. What’s more, soon your landscape will be clouded,
so to speak, with cloud computing. The good news is that more than the
lining of this cloud is silver. And it doesn’t obscure—it actually
improves visibility.

Even so, TCO is a different proposition when computing assets are
transferred to the cloud. The cloud presents enormous savings
opportunities, in terms of data center real estate, staffing, software
and hardware maintenance, and accounting. It also introduces new
management challenges, including balancing cloud and non-cloud assets
and altering software that was originally built for on-premise
deployment for use in the cloud. Some of these challenges may introduce
new costs as they eliminate others.

This CITO Research paper will help you enter this new frontier by
illuminating benefits to cloud TCO and important issues to consider
before moving applications to the cloud.

Our analysis of how TCO changes in the cloud examines the following
categories of benefits:

-   The financial impact of the cloud—new ways to save, new ways to think about
costs, transparency into IT costs, and economies of scale
-   The business impact of the cloud—process improvement, innovation,
flexibility, and expertise, among others

### The Financial Impact of the Cloud

Moving to the cloud creates new savings, changes the way you think about
costs, and provides benefits related to scaleability.

#### New Ways to Save

The cloud brings a variety of savings that derive both from what you
don’t have to do—such as building new data centers—and what you can
do—innovating using capacity that you can turn off and on as needed.

#### Savings advantage: No data center expansion and upgrades

Migrating to the cloud means you can stop building or expanding data
centers. Data centers represent some of the world’s most expensive real
estate, and the costs for energy, monitoring, and security staff to
operate them are sky-high. When you switch to a cloud solution, building
and running a data center is no longer your problem. Companies that
already have a data center can put off or eliminate expanding that data
center as their business grows.

With IT outsourcing (ITO), you’re essentially handing over your IT
configuration to be operated by someone else in a dedicated environment.
Savings derive mostly from reduced labor and power costs as you hand
over a portion of operational control of your complex environment to a
third party. Conversely, public cloud providers optimize your
application landscape to run on distributed, shared commodity servers,
which are inexpensive but kept up to date and supported to provide the
best quality at the lowest price. And while your cloud provider does the
“grunt work” of running and maintaining the infrastructure, with
interactive tools you have maximum flexibility to provision and change
computing resources as you need them.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/TCO-1.png %}" width="550" height="295" />

#### Savings advantage: No more over-provisioning

When enterprises build their own data centers, they build to accommodate
peak loads—the moments of highest predictable activity, such as the
spike after a Super Bowl ad or a compelling marketing promotion. This
means that while you have the capacity for peak loads, your average
utilization of servers may be only 20%, or even less. If you’re not
using 80% of your capacity 90% of the time, what is your actual TCO for
that on-premise equipment?

Despite the costs, overprovisioning has historically been the only way
to handle peak loads, sufficient redundancy, and data replication
capabilities, which means duplication of your already overbuilt data
center. In the cloud, vendors manage these issues at scale and
automatically reassign computing assets to maximize efficiency, passing
the savings on to you. Simply put, in the cloud you can turn costs on
and off in ways that you can’t when you own and operate your own data
centers.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/TCO-2.png %}" width="500" height="182" />

#### Savings advantage: Hand over maintenance

The cloud helps alleviate another costly chore—the need to upgrade and
update software and hardware and to purchase and maintain dedicated
instances for specific business uses. In the cloud this is baked into
the service fee and the vendor handles upgrades and updates on your
behalf. When you run your systems in-house, once you’ve bought a Windows
license and a server, you’re stuck with them whether you need them or
not. In the cloud, you don’t have to worry about security patches and
upgrades for servers managed by cloud providers, and, if you don’t need
that server or the software license anymore, you don’t have to pay for
it and you certainly don’t have to patch it.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/TCO-3.png %}" width="403" height="433" />

#### Savings advantage: From CapEx to OpEx

When switching to a pay-as-you-go model, many companies find that
savings accrue from changing their financial accounting for computing
assets from capital expenditures (CapEx) to operating expenditures
(OpEx). With CapEx, the full cost of an asset is levied right away, but
the expense of the asset is depreciated over time. With OpEx, the
expense can be deducted in full in the year it occurs.

#### Savings advantage: Avoid vendor lock-in

The cloud implementation and partners you choose do make a difference.
If the cloud provider is committed to an open strategy and open
standards, that keeps costs over time low. A proprietary strategy tends
to lead to vendor lock-in, which can result in higher costs. Proprietary
systems cannot be easily moved to other vendors; applications need to be
rewritten or heavily modified. Customers are also forced to seek out
additional vendors for new functionalities if their hosting partner
chooses not to offer features in their platform that customers need.

By selecting a cloud partner committed to open standards, you have
access to the world (literally) for support. This often means that you
get answers to problems more quickly than if you were to wait for a
response from a company that owns a proprietary standard and has a
limited support staff. Also, because multiple parties with an interest
in advancing standards and developing new solutions are involved, new
features can be developed faster.

### The Cloud Changes Thinking about Costs

The cloud introduces new cost variables that are not typically part of
traditional TCO calculations. In the cloud, computing resources are
delivered as utilities, similar to electricity—someone else invests in
building the resource, and you pay for what you use. In a dedicated
server-hosting scenario, your computing assets still must be directly
purchased, but your service provider runs your assets in a hotel and
charges for the use of space and power.

#### Cost advantage: Per-use charges

Instead of examining one-time purchase costs and calculating
depreciation, cloud TCO accounting considers per-use charges. And,
because you’re changing the way you examine costs, some of the
management infrastructure you use to administer assets may also need to
change.

There are different categories of management tools. Some providers offer
a standard web portal that allows customers to perform or delegate many
tasks through a simple interface. There is also a growing market for
third-party cloud management services such as RightScale, enStratus,
Scalar, and others that consolidate multiple cloud vendors into a single
web portal with powerful features, such as auto-scaling and billing
alerts.

Customers have many choices of monitoring tools depending on what
aspects of their hosting configuration they want to monitor, for
example, hardware, networking, storage, applications, or security
(physical and logical). Enterprises that deploy these tools can monitor
a range of installations, from a single facility to many locations
across the globe.

Outsourcing to the cloud can reduce the number of devices that companies
need to monitor, lowering costs for companies using applications that
charge per device monitored or by a tiered quantity of devices
monitored. In some cases, if all critical infrastructure is outsourced,
customers can eliminate the need to do any monitoring on their own. They
cannot recover software costs, but they no longer have to renew their
monitoring licenses.

Also, by cloud-sourcing, you may eliminate the need to have your own
people monitoring your systems 24x7, which means teams can be repurposed
or downsized. A cloud provider staffs for 24x7 coverage and responds to
alerts. Customers only need to retain subject matter experts (SMEs) who
can interact with outside support personnel for questions and problem
resolution.

For some, this change of model is an adjustment. For customers who
didn’t spend much time or effort monitoring their computing assets, the
cloud offers a wealth of information and control around resource usage
and efficiency. Customers accustomed to detailed networking or server
monitoring might find that cloud-based monitoring provides less detail
than they are accustomed to seeing, but they usually conclude that the
tradeoff in terms of time gained to focus on core business
objectives—rather than undifferentiating IT work—is worth it.

#### Cost advantage: A holistic view

It’s likely that some computing resources will remain in-house, and you
will find yourself managing both in-house and cloud resources. This
requires a holistic view of all of your resources, something you may not
currently have. Investment may be required in order to gain this view.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/TCO-4.png %}" width="601" height="151" />

Still, over time your TCO will go down as you have less “O” in the
equation—that is, less to own. In some cases, TCO improves immediately
because the customer reduces its “O”-level via outsourcing. The degree
of improvement depends on how much is outsourced.

#### Cost advantage: Transparency

In the cloud, vendors organize their offerings so that you can
understand exactly how much a resource is costing you, a calculation you
might have a hard time replicating for in-house assets. You can
calculate the precise cost impact that would come from adding or
changing an application or from adding or removing a server. As a
result, your decision-making acumen becomes much sharper and you save
money over time.

### Benefits from Cloud Providers’ Scale

Cloud providers are working at scale in every sense of the word. They
purchase more servers than almost any of their customers. They have a
direct relationship with the hardware and software manufacturers that
you use to run your business. They can lower your costs in several key
areas.

#### Scale advantage: Volume discounts and vendor relationships

Cloud providers have the ability to negotiate volume discounts. Cloud
providers are on the front lines working with vendors, learning about
upcoming releases, anticipating problems, and uncovering opportunities
for their customers, who then get the benefit of this cumulative
knowledge and can concentrate on their own businesses.

#### Scale advantage: Repeal of the “R&D tax”

Your goal is to run your business. You may not be able to afford the
time or money required to research new developments in the open cloud or
the latest improve- ments in hardware technology. Cloud providers have
made research and development part of their mission. When you purchase
cloud services, you are offloading the “R&D tax” that would otherwise
come with staying on top of running an IT estate on your own. Further,
the cloud opens the door to conduct R&D within your own industry, on
hardware and software that’s available when you need it but doesn’t cost
you when you don’t.

### The Business Impact of the Cloud

Moving to the cloud reduces TCO by automating functions hampered by
lengthy, hands-on processes and offers opportunities for significant
process improvements.

#### Business advantage: Harmonized vendor roadmaps

When you transfer the acquisition and management of your computing
assets to the cloud, your IT team can focus on strategic decisions for
your enterprise and avoid spending time and money on your vendors’
agendas. When you work with a cloud provider, managing and harmonizing
complicated vendor roadmaps is no longer your problem. You no longer
have to ask:

-   “What should we upgrade when?”
-   “Is this patch really necessary now?”
-   “How long will my system be down?”
-   “Will adding a capability from Vendor A negatively affect Vendor B’s
product?”

Cloud vendors work directly with hardware and software vendors, handling
these issues every day, for all of their customers, at scale.

#### Business advantage: Expertise on demand

With the rise of new technologies including cloud, mobility, and
virtualization, and with the technology challenges we face such as big
data and power management, running a technology estate has only become
more complicated. The level and quality of skill required has increased
in recent years, making it difficult to recruit and maintain talent
in-house. Today, you need experts in security, system administration,
virtualization, storage, and more. Good cloud vendors have experts in
all of these disciplines and make them available on the same amortized
cost basis as the physical hardware and software. You often can talk to
them directly when needed, but you can also be assured that they are
working in the background, supporting you all the time.

How much would it cost you to retain these skills? The cost of expertise
depends on the resources needed. Keep in mind that a company needs more
than one of each of these people to staff their operation 24x7. Ideally
you need someone to cover all three shifts every day, plus weekends, and
you also need to account for vacation and sick time. Staffing this on
your own may not be practical, while outsourcing allows you to cover
some aspects of your online presence 24x7.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/TCO-5.png %}" />

#### Business advantage: An IT assembly line

Considering that the purpose of technology is to reduce labor it is
remarkable how much IT still feels “handmade.” The amount of labor that
goes into assembling IT infrastructure is striking, especially when
there are so many commonalities between enterprises. A major cloud
benefit derives from the automation of infrastructure, effectively
creating an “assembly line” of modular parts. The fewer people that
touch hardware, the more savings that can be passed on to customers.

Once the machines are up in the cloud, the process is even more
automated. Customers simply go online, select their server options, and
press a button. Three to four minutes later, their cloud servers are
online and they receive an email with their logon information.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/how-the-cloud-reshapes-tco-analysis-cito-research/TCO-6.png %}" width="599" height="154" />

#### Business advantage: Redesigned processes

Cloud-related savings are not just one-time net from offloading
procurement and management responsibilities from in-house IT. Ease of
deployment and on-the-fly compute adjustments may actually enable
enterprises to redesign business processes that were based on outdated
assumptions of resource constraints. This means your enterprise isn’t
just saving money and becoming more efficient—it may actually be able to
sharpen its competitive edge and add to top-line growth with new
processes that capitalize on cloud efficiency and availability.

Here’s an example: Enterprises are starting to adopt the concept of
deploying nonsensitive data in the cloud. Instead of having to rely on
internal IT departments to acquire or repurpose hardware in their own
data center—a process that can take weeks or longer—they can go to a
cloud provider and purchase virtual machines. The attractiveness of this
option improves when the cloud provider offers dedicated physical
network security gear in front of its public cloud servers, improving
security and peace of mind. To maximize this effect, customers who don’t
want to run on a multi-tenant cloud infrastructure have the option of
using private cloud offerings. Time and money can also be saved by
outsourcing development and staging servers in the cloud. In fact, this
is a most common use case for private clouds.

#### Business advantage: Self-service IT

When considering the cloud, it is important to assess the impact of
business users’ ability to conduct self-service computing. When business
users can directly access and apportion applications and services—with
cost transparency—IT no longer has to be involved in every decision, but
can provide support because they have visibility.

#### Business advantage: Right-sizing staff

Through cloud-enabled automation and the support capabilities of your
hosting partner, you can reduce staff levels needed to build and
maintain IT infrastructure, while increasing quality through cloud
vendors’ accumulated collective knowledge.

### Walk Before You Run

It would be a mistake to assume that every application in your stack
should be moved to the cloud right away. Moving too quickly in this
direction could negatively impact your TCO, as mistakes or improper
planning could drive up the cost of cloud conversion, at least
initially, and reduce savings. Here are a few factors to verify before
moving applications to the cloud:

-   You have a variable workload. Because flexibility is one of the core value
propositions of the cloud, enterprises that have wide swings in capacity needs
stand to benefit the most.
-   Your homespun application can scale up and down. Some applications were not
built with the cloud in mind. A homespun application built for a localized
deployment might need to be redesigned in order to operate properly in the cloud.
-   You do not have a per-machine commercial application license. Commercial
applications often have licensing models that require registering individual
machines or physical processors. Moving these applications to the cloud could
increase license purchases, wiping out advantages gained from savings on
infrastructure.

### Conclusion

Moving to the cloud can significantly lower the TCO of your computing
assets as your enterprise essentially moves from an “own” to a “rent” IT
business model. Successfully lowering TCO requires a sophisticated
understanding of your own software architecture, the capabilities of
cloud providers, and the accounting and management changes that could
result from switching applications to the cloud. In some cases, you may
first find yourself “spending to save.” But ultimately, if your
organization has high infrastructure and IT personnel costs and a need
to expand and contract applications or computing power quickly, you can
substantially lower TCO by moving to the cloud and gain a better
understanding of your IT landscape in the process.

[***CITO Research***](http://www.citoresearch.com/)
*CITO Research is a source of news, analysis, research, and knowledge
for CIOs, CTOs, and other IT and business professionals. CITO Research
engages in a dialogue with its audience to capture technology trends
that are harvested, analyzed, and communicated in a sophisticated way to
help practitioners solve difficult business problems. This paper was
created by CITO Research and sponsored by Rackspace.*
