---
permalink: virtualization-is-not-the-cloud/
audit_date:
title: Virtualization is Not the Cloud
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-07-23'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-07'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Cloud Overview
product_url: cloud-overview
---

### Introduction

If you’re considering extending your use of virtualization technology to
improve utilization of your computing resources, you may have heard that
virtualization accomplishes the same goals as cloud computing. Not true.

Virtualization is not the cloud. There are significant gaps between the
capabilities of virtualization and the cloud. Virtualization is a way to
make better use of your infrastructure, but it doesn’t come close to the
level of elasticity, empowerment, self-service, and automation of the
cloud. Ultimately, with virtualization, you’re still in the
infrastructure business.

This paper analyzes the benefits of cloud computing, side-by-side with
virtualization, and establishes why they are not interchangeable. If you
want user empowerment, scalability, and relief from the burdens of
maintaining hardware and software yourself, you want the cloud.

### Benefits of Virtualization

Virtualization emerged in the mainframe era as a practical solution to
help IT departments make better use of their investments in
enterprise-grade hardware, such as high-performance computers, servers,
and storage. These machines could handle more workload than a typical
application required, so the idea of running virtual machines, each
performing discrete tasks, on a single piece of hardware, was appealing.

**“Client/server done right.”** In a way, virtualization is the last
bastion of client/server technology. It has made that paradigm more
efficient; think of it as “client/server done right.” The virtualization
universe ekes some additional value from enterprise-level architectures,
concepts, and cost structures and makes running an IT estate
operationally smoother. But fundamentally, it is still very much about
deeply integrating applications with infrastructure, albeit with an
additional layer of software that masks these distinctions.

**Heavy duty.** Virtualization nets benefits for enterprises with
significant investments in traditional technologies such as large
relational databases, virtual local area networks, multiterabyte
servers, and storage area networks. The emphasis is on persistence and
stability, and to a large degree, it was achieved.

**New tools.** Over time, tools were added to make administration of the
virtual machines easier, such as templates, controllers for starting and
stopping services, and centralized administration. Until recently,
virtualization has not been very flexible, especially when it comes to
enterprises’ need to scale up or down quickly or to provision resources.

**Privacy.** For organizations with significant security requirements
and a need for dedicated resources, virtual machines can replicate the
required level of resource or device privacy and control that comes with
hard-wired devices.

**Customization.** As virtualization is based on dedicated in-house
resources, the potential for customization is extensive.

### Drawbacks of Virtualization

While the idea of “virtualizing assets”—reassigning computing power to
maximize efficiency of physical hardware—is a concept that
virtualization and cloud computing share, virtualization falls far short
of the promise of cloud computing.

**Virtualization does not offer self-service, choice, or
empowerment.** As an enterprise deployment, virtualization is complex
and requires a high degree of centralized control, which\
means business users or departments can’t simply “virtualize at will”
and provision their own resources. A request still must be sent to IT,
which adds time, when users could be spending that time innovating and
experimenting.

**Virtualization technology is not elastic.** A typical virtual machine
environment is in place almost as long as a traditional client/server
implementation and is almost as difficult to deploy and retract.
Starting and stopping services, and removing artifacts of virtual
machines from hardware when they are no longer needed, is time-consuming
and can result in costly errors. The license model doesn’t support
on-demand computing. Virtualization makes better use of computing power,
but it still relies on a licensing model that mirrors enterprise
software licensing, which can get very expensive, fast. To save money
with virtualization, enterprises must first have expensive equipment
in-house, which is then logically subdivided. Licenses can’t be turned
on and off like a utility, which negates some of the value of the
on-demand computing proposition of virtualization.

**You are still in the infrastructure business.** Although you can get
better bang for the buck out of your hardware with virtualization, you
are still responsible for acquiring, managing, and replacing that
hardware. IT staff still need to apportion the servers, administer
change requests, and be responsible for the same patches, upgrades, and
vendor roadmap concerns that traditional enterprise computing customers
do.

**Your IT department still has to be “jack of all trades and master of
none.”** A virtual machine could save you money on hardware through
improved server utilization, but you still have to have someone on staff
who can intervene if your applications break. That goes for every other
application you have—including virtualization itself. You’re giving your
capital expense a rest, but your human resources still have as much work
as ever.

**Virtualization does not equal automation—at least not
automatically.** It is possible to automate a virtualized infrastructure
with certain additional tools, but they don’t come out of the box.

**Virtualization addresses only one pillar of IT service:
Infrastructure.** Virtual machines are a good example of
Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), but they don’t supply two other
critical services that make enterprise computing run better:
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Softwareas- a-Service (SaaS). Your
enterprise is still on the hook for buying and managing hardware and
software.

**Virtualization doesn’t boost security.** While cloud providers have
beefy security certifications for their data centers, it’s a myth that
virtual machines are inherently more secure than physical hardware.
Securing 100 virtual machines requires the same amount of effort and
diligence as securing 100 servers.

**Virtualization was made for IT.** Ultimately, virtualization was
introduced to lower expenses and make life easier for IT, but not
necessarily for everyone else. Because it is largely invisible or opaque
to business users, it doesn’t encourage self-service or pushing the
boundaries of computing power to create new products and services.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/virtualization-is-not-the-cloud/cloud_virt_image1.png %}"/>

### The Advantage of the Cloud

If your goal is to reduce technology cost, empower users, enable
self-service, and get out of the IT infrastructure business, the answer
lies in the cloud. Virtualization takes you only a small part of the way
there.

**The cloud automates management.** Fundamentally, the cloud’s value is
in automation. Virtualization was about moving from directly managing
physical resources to managing virtual resources on top of physical
resources. The step from virtual to cloud is a bigger and more
fundamental transition. In the cloud, you can eliminate a high
percentage of the IT tasks you used to have with on-premise equipment.
Your equipment lives offsite, maintained by someone else. Through
automated routines and application program interfaces, provisioning and
managing resources is a snap. The cloud is largely self-managing and
self-healing.

**The cloud distributes control.** With virtualization’s centralized
control model, the organization still depends on one or two people
sitting at a console. In the cloud, you can provide access to any number
of developers and business users. IT managers can see, at a glance,
exactly which applications are running where and how much computing
power (therefore, how much money) they’re consuming—and take action if
that needs to change. Can you do that in your enterprise now?

**The cloud scales.** Today, you might need 10 servers. Tomorrow, you
might need 100. Because cloud providers have spent years building out
data centers with highly scalable hardware, the cloud can accommodate
wide swings in demand. Through easily accessible portals, you can switch
services on and off, without having to submit a work ticket or wait for
approval.

**The cloud empowers.** The cloud empowers users to innovate, using
massive amounts of commodity hardware, housed at secure data centers
offsite. You don’t have to wait for IT to\
locate and apportion computing power within your enterprise’s finite
resource base. If the marketing department wants to test a website
concept (or five) with real market participants, they should be able to
spin it up directly and immediately and switch it off as soon as the
experiment is over. The faster you can access computing power when you
need it, the faster you can innovate, without spending a lot of money.

**The cloud supersedes virtualization.** Conceptually, cloud computing
and virtualization are similar. Both logically separate hardware,
software, and user interface functions. Some cloud\
services, such as IaaS, use virtualization as a delivery mechanism. But
the cloud continues where virtualization leaves off. With the cloud, you
get infrastructure (IaaS), development platforms (PaaS), and
applications (SaaS) delivered as a service, and the daily grind of
maintaining those resources is no longer your problem. Virtualization is
a layer of software on top of your existing resources, which you must
continue to maintain. The cloud removes the burden of maintaining those
resources, and scales them infinitely, for you to use a service, when
you need it. Don’t let anyone tell you they’re interchangeable.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/virtualization-is-not-the-cloud/cloud_virt_image2.png %}"/>

**Private clouds can support virtualization.** A managed private cloud
provides dedicated infrastructure that can scale to your specific
computing, bandwidth, and storage needs, fully supporting your virtual
machines. Operating systems and application platforms are fully
customizable. In a managed private cloud, you can get customized virtual
hardware allocation and license renewal, round-the-clock data center
support, the option to add resources when you need them, and
service-level agreements. A managed private cloud can offer the best of
both worlds.

### Deciding Between Cloud and Virtualization

If you’re trying to decide what’s right for your environment, here’s
table that can help you.

<img src="{% asset_path cloud-overview/virtualization-is-not-the-cloud/cloud_virt_image3.png %}"/>

### Conclusion

Virtualization is a layer of software that improves the management of
the resources you already have. It conserves resources and makes some
aspects of computing operationally smoother, but it doesn’t relieve any
of the responsibilities of IT. In fact, it adds one—managing
virtualization itself. Nor does it provide self-service, elasticity, or
automation for business users and developers.

Fundamentally, with the cloud, you’re paying to use resources, located
elsewhere, as a service. That means automation, user-friendly access, a
full accounting of what’s running where and how much it’s costing you.
With the cloud, you have a low-cost, robust, secure resource that
expands when you need more of it and contracts when you need less.
You’re out of the infrastructure business and back where you belong—in
the innovation business.

The cloud is as much a philosophy as a technology, and it’s quite
different from the philosophy that informs virtualization. The two
should never be confused, but that doesn’t mean they can’t be combined.
Managed private cloud services combine the flexibility of the cloud with
the dedicated resources and customization capabilities of
virtualization.


***Contributed by Rackspace Engineers and Jacob Walcik. Jacob Walcik is
a enterprise architect on the Rackspace Cloud Builders team. Having been
at Rackspace a little over five years, Jacob enjoys the technical
challenges, working with brilliant people and helping customers.***




