---
permalink: alex-and-ani-rapidly-growing-its-lifestyle-brand-online/
audit_date:
title: 'Alex and Ani, Rapidly Growing its Lifestyle Brand Online'
type: case_study
created_date: '2014-07-24'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-17'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

<a href="http://www.alexandani.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path UseCases/alex-and-ani-rapidly-growing-its-lifestyle-brand-online/alexandanilogo.jpeg %}" width="404" height="113" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Alex and Ani is a rapidly growing lifestyle
brand best known for their patented signature expandable wire bangles,
which may be adjusted and personalized with a variety of special charms.

**CHALLENGES:** Because Alex and Ani is growing so dramatically, they
need to ensure they can scale their environment quickly as their
customer base expands and their software needs change.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup>** **SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/),
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/),
[RackConnect<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/rackconnect/),
[LoadBalancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Alex and Ani is forging onward in their digital
expansion, confident they can scale and rely on Rackspace to develop new
solutions as their needs change.

### Company hosts with Rackspace to maximize uptime and ensure they can scale quickly as their needs grow and change.

Alex and Ani is a rapidly growing lifestyle brand created by Rhode
Island-based designer Carolyn Rafaelian, Founder, Creative Director and
CEO. Rafaelian hails from a family of jewelry manufacturers whose first
RI factory opened in 1966. Rafaelian worked in the family business for a
decade before launching her own line, named Alex and Ani, after her two
eldest daughters. She opened her first store in 2009 in Newport, RI and
began selling unique designs influenced by her spiritual outlook and
commitment to social and environmental consciousness. Today, Alex and
Ani has more than 40 stores in the US, more than 1,500 points of sale
worldwide, and is growing at breakneck speed. However, the company
remains committed to charitable causes and eco-conscious production. The
brand’s core product is a patented signature expandable wire bangle that
can be adjusted; each bangle is adorned with meaningful charms of either
overt or private significance.

As a company, Alex and Ani has undergone dramatic changes between its
inception in 2004 and the present day; transforming from a small local
business to a large multi-channel retailer with a wholesale operation,
international presence, and a substantial digital sales division. The
most substantial changes took hold in 2010 when the company spearheaded
an aggressive expansion, in physical store space and on

the web, with a targeted digital strategy. This launched the current
period of hyper- growth during which time Alex and Ani has seen
eye-popping revenue gains. With sales increasing from $4.5 million in
2010, to $80 million in 2012, to a whopping $230 million in 2013, Alex
and Ani is currently considered the fastest growing retailer in the
world. During this transition, the company turned to Rackspace to manage
their increasingly complex environment, deliver round-the-clock support
and personalized expertise, so that Alex and Ani can provide top-notch
service to their rapidly growing customer base.

**Growing and Scaling**

Current Vice President of Digital Strategy, Ryan Bonifacino, was brought
on board at the beginning of Alex and Ani’s growth spurt to build the
dot-com business. He says his mandate from day one was to create a
strategy for multi-channel expansion, to centralize all customer
information, regardless of channel, and enable intelligent
decision-making and superior service. As he implemented the new strategy
and Alex and Ani’s digital operations began to increase quickly in size
and scope, Bonifacino says he knew they needed a service provider that
would allow them to scale, which is what brought him to Rackspace. He
says this reslationship now lets him meet demand and stay focused on
core business, without worrying about the challenges future growth may
bring: “Rackspace gives us the ability to scale so that we can focus on
running a retail operation, as opposed to running a technology company,”
he explains. “We often times look at Rackspace as an extension of our
own internal IT group. So, it’s a true partnership model.”

Alex and Ani now runs on a large and complex environment consisting of
multiple physical servers and dedicated cloud servers to support their
Magento enterprise platform. Under the guidance of their Rackspace team,
they use a powerful load-balancing mechanism to support both anticipated
and unanticipated traffic and have a variety of monitoring features in
place. They are also using performance acceleration services to handle
high demand and ensure Magento can always serve up an optimum experience
for their customers, regardless of device. Bonifacino says Rackspace
provides them with “an environment continually ready to accept and
facilitate the new demand for our product as a results of what we’re
doing on the digital marketing side. It’s a sophisticated arrangement,”
he continues, and a responsibility he is glad to offload to a third
party. Overall, he stresses the benefits of hosting with Rackspace and
notes they have a lot to offer any company in a current or anticipated
phase of growth: “Not only would I recommend Rackspace to hyper-growth
companies within the multi-channel retail space, but to larger
industries that have small to large volumes. Rackspace has very specific
teams that are able to help you grow. If you’re a small business in
hyper-growth, and all of a sudden you’re enterprise, your teams may
change but you’ve got a journey that’s pre-defined based on your growth,
and who better to define growth than those that see the amount of
traffic that you’re bring to your site, or to your consumers.”

**Maximizing Uptime and Staying on Top of Peak Traffic**

Not only does Alex and Ani need to stay on top of the increasing demand
due to recent growth and digital marketing strategy efforts, they also
need to manage the traffic spikes that affect any retailer on peak
shopping days like Black Friday or Cyber Monday, or following a
successful ad campaign. An ad run during this year’s Big Game, for
example, brought 28,000 people to Alex and Ani’s website at one time,
and it was crucial to anticipate the impact of this onslaught to keep
the site performing as expected. As Bonifacino explains, the site’s
performance is directly correlated to revenue: “Every second costs
money. For every second you add to the loading process, you’re reducing
your conversion rate by 7%, and that adds up.” For that reason, reliable
performance and management of peak traffic was forefront in his mind
when selecting a service provider, which is what initially led him to
Rackspace. “Maximizing uptime was one of our biggest requirements in
doing diligence with hosting providers. Rackspace was rated the top.”

**Leveraging Rackspace Specialists**

As Alex and Ani grows in size and scope, the company has shifted to
enterprise-level technologies and relies on cutting-edge tools to help
them grow their multi-channel operations, like Adobe’s Digital Asset
Management software. Rackspace has tailored its specialist teams
accordingly to deliver highly specific expertise, which Bonifacino says
is one of the aspects he values most about Rackspace as a service
provider: “Rackspace approach to partnering with all of the enterprise
level technologies that we’re onboarding into Alex and Ani is to be the
best of the best in terms of certification. Rackspace integrates and has
dedicated teams for the best-of-breed partners that we work with, from
Magento and eBay to Adobe and Akamai. Not only that, but they have
subject matter experts for those particular tools. Often times we found
that individual Rackspace employees had even worked at those companies
in the past, which is exciting because it means they know how the tools
work, they know what it’s like under the hood and can advise us
appropriately.”

Bonifacino says Rackspace experts have been able to leverage their
experiences with other clients to lead his team to the best solutions
for the specific challenges they face. Rackspace can bring him specific
business cases for comparison purposes, he says, and explore the
solutions others are using. Overall, he says, the service he receives
from Rackspace goes far beyond the nuts and bolts of hardware
technology. “It becomes a lot more than what a lot of people view
technology as, especially hosted technology. It’s not a commodity
anymore. The people and the experience is what makes the difference.”
