---
permalink: bluetooth-sites-gain-greater-stability-availability-at-rackspace/
audit_date:
title: 'Bluetooth Sites Gain Greater Stability & Availability at Rackspace'
type: case_study
created_date: '2012-11-27'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-17'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

<a href="http://www.bluetooth.org/">
   <img src="{% asset_path UseCases/bluetooth-sites-gain-greater-stability-availability-at-rackspace/btsiglogo.gif %}" width="200" height="73" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Technology standards setting organization

**CHALLENGES:** Bluetooth wireless communications protocol adoption
increases interest in and traffic to the SIG

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Managed
hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/)
for their web properties

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Reduced hosting costs and improved application
performance backed by [Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)

### Company Overview

Activity on the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) Web sites was
increasing dramatically as the Bluetooth wireless technology standard
grew more popular and more widely accepted. But with this increased
activity came an increased awareness of problems with the existing
sites. Mission-critical systems were often unexpectedly down, which not
only compromised cash flow from fees associated with some of the online
programs, but also compromised the increasingly important public image
of Bluetooth wireless technology as a world-class standard. Recognizing
that it needed the help of an experience provider to manage site growth,
the Bluetooth SIG decided to move its key sites to the managed hosting
experts at Rackspace. Since then, the sites have experienced nearly 100
percent uptime and availability. This keeps the revenues flowing into
the SIG and ensures that the public face of Bluetooth wireless
technology is as strong and reliable as the wireless technology itself.

Bluetooth wireless technology is all about connecting things, but as
adoption of the wireless standard exploded, the online systems
supporting the members of the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG)
experienced some serious growing pains. Critical Web sites, including
the one through which the SIG collects fees, would grow sluggish; some
would go offline altogether. Upon investigating the problem, the SIG’s
Web masters often discovered that one or more sites had been down for
hours or even days—yet the service providers hosting the sites had never
noticed the problem. And, to add insult to injury, the SIG technologists
would experience one of those frustrating “denial of responsibility”
attacks situation when they tried to ascertain why a site was down. A
service provider would say it was one of the applications; those
developing the applications would say it was the service provider’s
hardware or the way the site was configured.

The fact of the matter was that the Bluetooth SIG had outgrown its old
IT environment. No longer could it effectively support its members and
the public with individual Web sites and applications developed on an ad
hoc basis. No longer could it rely on service providers whose expertise
lay in supporting organizations with lower availability and reliability
requirements. The Bluetooth SIG needed a software infrastructure
designed to support thousands of active users and a hosting partner
capable of providing the strongest managed services. For software
support, the SIG turned to VA Software and its SourceForge application.
VA Software, in turn, introduced the SIG to the experts at Rackspace
Managed Hosting.

### Evolving in Sync with the Technology

The early interactions among members of the Bluetooth SIG organization
took place in Yahoo! discussion groups in the late 1990s. As needs
arose, SIG members from around the world would take it upon themselves
to develop applications and databases for the entire community to use.
This resulted in a kind of worldwide mosaic of developers, applications
and Web sites. The only thing that all these systems had in common was
that they were all hosted in completely different environments.

By July 2002, Bluetooth technology was well established, with in excess
of 1 million Bluetooth enabled products shipping each week. More than
2,000 organizations belonged to the SIG and tens of thousands of
individuals were involved in the development of the specification and
products based on it. The members of the Bluetooth community realized
that the SIG could no longer operate effectively with an all-volunteer
staff and no oversight with regard to infrastructure development, so it
hired a full-time staff of administrators and technologists—who
immediately inherited responsibility for all the different online
systems supporting the community. As the new team of technologists
surveyed the sprawling virtual domain, the problems arising from this
ungoverned evolution began to become apparent.

### Improving Availability & Reliability

For the Bluetooth SIG, the first step in taking control of the online
programs was to get in touch with VA Software, whose SourceForge
software provides powerful, consolidated capabilities for tracking and
archiving all the discussions and correspondence related to the
development of the Bluetooth specification. While this move would start
to solve some of the known software infrastructure challenges, it would
not solve the pressing availability and reliability challenges. SIG
members asked VA Software for a recommendation and VA Software pointed
the SIG to the experts at Rackspace. Based on the strength of that
recommendation, the SIG began consolidating its worldwide infrastructure
in the Rackspace data center.

After moving the bluetooth.org site to Rackspace and implementing the
SourceForge system, the SIG started migrating legacy systems from the
mosaic into the SourceForge framework. With the help of Rackspace and
its support teams, the migrations went smoothly and without incident.
Yet not all was entirely well. Its fee-collection system still had
serious availability problems, despite running on a high- performance
server in the Rackspace data center. This time, though, instead of
encountering more denials of responsibility from the developers and the
hosting service provider, the SIG encountered Rackspace’s philosophy of
***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>*** — and soon isolated the sources
of the problems.

“Rackspace was instrumental in helping us set up a logging system to
identify exactly where the problems were occurring,” says Brandon Nott,
Online Programs Coordinator for the Bluetooth SIG. “We started with a
general area of where we thought the problems might be and worked with
technicians at Rackspace to identify the specific areas that needed
monitoring. With Rackspace’s detailed understanding of server processes,
we generated an immense amount of data, which we then used to determine
where the problems were originating. The collaborative approach to
problem solving allowed us to troubleshoot problem areas quickly and
very effectively.”

As a consequence of Rackspace’s dedication to helping solve this
problem, stability of the site quickly improved. “We’re now pretty close
to 100 percent uptime,” says Nott. “We’re still adding patches today,
but the site now has the appearance of extreme uptime—because Rackspace
is on it immediately if it ever goes down.”

Rackspace also ensures site availability with the strongest network
connectivity to be found anywhere. Rackspace has a self-healing network
infrastructure and service level agreements with eight network
connectivity providers. The instant that Rackspace’s network monitors
detect a problem with one carrier, the self-healing network tools
automatically reroute packets to another carrier. As a result, the
Rackspace network has had no downtime—zero—for more than 26 consecutive
months. For the Bluetooth SIG, that’s precisely the kind of connectivity
required.

### Bringing Bluetooth.com over to Rackspace

Just as the increased adoption of Bluetooth technology had increased
traffic and user activity on the bluetooth.org sites and subsites
designed for SIG members, so too had the public interest in Bluetooth
technology increased traffic to the SIG’s public-facing site,
bluetooth.com. The original site had been designed to help individuals
and companies learn about the capabilities of Bluetooth technology, but
more recent implementations had expanded the site to present current
news about Bluetooth products, invitations to events and even an online
store where visitors could purchase merchandise emblazoned with the
logo.

Traffic to the bluetooth.com site was climbing, and that was overloading
the shared server hosting the site. Additionally, the site would
occasionally go offline because of an event or error coming from another
site on the host—all of which was combining to compromise the
availability of this increasingly important site.

“It became very clear that we needed a dedicated server,” says Jason
Ketchum, Technical Evangelist with the Bluetooth SIG. “The experience
we’d already had with Rackspace and the bluetooth.org site was so
positive that it was clear that that was the route we should go with the
bluetooth.com site as well.”

Consequently, in the fall of 2003, bluetooth.com joined bluetooth.org in
the Rackspace data center.

### Bottom-Line Benefits

Solving the availability problem in the SIG’s fee-collection site was
crucial to the Bluetooth SIG. Today, fees flow through bluetooth.org
with no interruption. With 40 to 50 new companies joining the SIG each
month and new products entering the market each day, keeping that
pipeline flowing smoothly is important to the SIG.

Revenue alone, however, is not the only reason that availability is
important to the SIG. “The bluetooth.com site is such a public face,
such a visible site, that if it’s down for even an hour it’s pretty
bad,” says Ketchum. “We have a lot of press who visit that site. Since
we have such a large international effort, for us to be down at all—even
if it’s the middle of the night here—is pretty bad news for us.”

With availability approaching 100 percent at Rackspace, that’s simply no
longer an issue for the Bluetooth SIG.

“Rackspace definitely exceeded my expectations, and I had pretty high
ones going in,” says Eric Schneider, Marketing Programs Manager for the
Bluetooth SIG. “It’s not just availability and server quality and
uptime—those are givens. They had to have that. But any time there is an
issue or a problem, Rackspace has been very willing to dive in quickly
and help me—and that goes for everyone I’ve talked to at Rackspace.”

“Yeah, Rackspace has spoiled me,” adds Ketchum. “I’ve talked to some of
the support people at other companies and I’ve found it frustrating
because I’ve grown accustomed to the responsiveness I routinely get from
Rackspace. It’s really quite amazing.”

For the Bluetooth SIG and its 16-member staff, such managed hosting
support is critical. Clearly, it would be impossible to provide the
level of support that the sites require if the SIG was to rely on
internal resources alone. And with so much at stake, it makes no sense
to work with a provider that cannot deliver outstanding service.

“Our chief goal and mission,” says Nott, “is to raise the overall level
of awareness of Bluetooth technology, to facilitate the growth of the
specification and to support our members. Rackspace is at the heart of
all three of those critical functions.”
