---
permalink: consumer-qa-site-pearlcom-searches-for-a-hybrid-cloud-solution/
audit_date:
title: 'Consumer Q&A Site Pearl.com Searches for a Hybrid Cloud Solution'
type: case_study
created_date: '2014-07-16'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-21'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

<a href="http://www.pearl.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path UseCases/consumer-qa-site-pearlcom-searches-for-a-hybrid-cloud-solution/Pearllogo_0.jpg %}" width="225" height="225" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Pearl.com connects people with a range of
verified professionals — from doctors, to lawyers, to veterinarians, and
auto mechanics — who can provide personal, affordable, timely answers to
questions on virtually any subject.

**CHALLENGES:** Pearl.com was adding multiple servers to their
Rackspace-managed infrastructure. Seeking smart ways to expand, the
company began to explore options in the Rackspace cloud, comparing costs
of managed infrastructure versus a hybrid cloud solution.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Advisory
Services](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise-cloud-solutions/advisory-services/),
[Cloud Readiness
Assessment](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise-cloud-solutions/advisory-services/#cloud-readiness-assessment),
[Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Rackspace Advisory Services implements the Cloud
Readiness Assessment, providing Pearl.com with an in-depth analysis of
equipment usage and a number of recommendations of how they could use a
hybrid hosting model with their own managed hosting infrastructure to
deal with burst capacity.

### Rackspace offers a hybrid cloud roadmap via the Cloud Readiness Assessment.

Pearl.com aims to make the world better by connecting customers for
one-on-one online conversations with nearly 200 different types of
verified professionals to help answer questions and solve problems, from
the everyday to the life-changing. The company started in 2003 when San
Francisco based entrepreneur Andy Kurtzig and his wife Sara were
expecting their first child, so he created a site to provide answers
from doctors and other professionals at any time.

Having already helped resolve some 5 million unique customer inquiries,
the company, formerly known as JustAnswer, was rebranded in 2012. The
Better Business Bureau has recognized Pearl.com with an A+ rating, and
the company maintains relationships with other high-profile counsel
providers such as Dr. Phil.com, PetMD and Car Talk. Pearl.com is now one
of the largest and fastest growing providers of access to professional
services online, increasing revenue for 33 quarters since inception and
grown an average of 123% per year since 2008.

Allison Bucchere, Head of User Experience, Design & Copy at Pearl.com
says, “At Pearl. com we are really passionate about helping thousands of
people every day. We are replacing their worries with peace of mind.
Whether you are just wondering about your rights, and you have a
question for a lawyer, you can get an answer right away. We are excited
to get out of bed every morning just to help people.”

In order to continue helping thousands of people daily on a
transactional website, hosting services are critical to Pearl.com.
Infrastructure redundancies in the Pearl.com network, at the systems and
applications layers have been improved over the years to ensure uptime
for customers and professionals. The company needed to understand from
an internal point of view how a Rackspace hybrid cloud solution could
accelerate growth, reduce costs, and help its customers succeed.

### Assessing Your Cloud Readiness

The Rackspace Cloud Readiness Assessment provides customers the detailed
intelligence and insight necessary to complete their strategic IT vision
and make game-changing, innovative decisions regarding their cloud
computing strategy. Facilitating the Cloud Readiness Assessment is the
Rackspace Advisory Services team, providing ever-present ***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>*** during your strategic IT planning process.

Enterprise IT Architects work with your company’s key IT stakeholders to
evaluate applications in your infrastructure that are candidates for
migration and provide a concrete recommendation for cloud adoption. This
is accomplished through a series of interviews, consultative sessions,
review of your current application portfolio, and multi- dimensional
infrastructure analysis spanning several weeks in order to create a
seamless journey to the cloud.

Pearl.com VP of Engineering Adam Cohen explains, “We did the Cloud
Readiness Assessment because we were trying to understand if we could
use the cloud to put some of our services in and to do more demand usage
then having just full time servers. We’ve been using managed hosting for
years, and we pay for those machines, 24/7. As our traffic ebbs and
flows during the day, could we be more efficient with the dollars we’re
spending with our IT budget?”

### Making a Cloud Adoption Decision

Agreeing to engage in the Rackspace Cloud Readiness Assessment, Cohen
says, “I was worried I was going to get a sales pitch from Rackspace.
And it turned out very different, which I was very pleased with. They
really came in and spent an enormous amount of time understanding the
detail of how we were running our equipment, and ended up providing a
lot of valuable information to understand what we were doing and how we
were using our stuff.”

Pearl.com prefers to control their entire Rackspace infrastructure as
much as possible, but having equipment sitting around idle isn’t very
useful. A Rackspace hybrid cloud solution for Pearl.com will allow them
to expand the company’s web presence as traffic ebbs and flows during a
24 hour period. During the day, the company experiences high loads of
traffic which slows down in the evening, and a hybrid cloud solution
should allow Pearl.com to reduce its cost footprint with Rackspace.

“At the end of the assessment, Rackspace provided us with a lot of
output, and reports with an enormous amount of detail using the cloud to
run our business. It opened our eyes to the most valuable part of the
assessment, the understanding of the level that we were using our
equipment,” says Cohen. “I had always felt that we were doing a pretty
good job, but didn’t really know, and it was very nice to have those
suspicions confirmed. They had gone through the detail of our systems
and found we were running our equipment pretty hot all the time and we
didn’t have a lot of gear that is sitting idle every day.”

### Journeying To The Cloud

“When I think about the assessment and what my expectations were, I
wanted to get a better understanding of how we were using the different
suite of Rackspace products and was trying to figure out what we should
be thinking about when we do our own architecture and grow our products,
says Cohen. “The Cloud Readiness Assessment gave us the tools to think
about how to integrate other Rackspace products. The cloud is
specifically interesting to us in terms of being able to turn machines
on and off at Rackspace much more quickly than we can today. That’s one
of the things that we are looking at to use in the future to do some of
our burst computing that we need to do in our hosted environment.”

Pearl.com is looking ahead, exploring upcoming adoption of either
Rackspace public or private cloud flexibility to meet critical customer
and uptime needs. According to Cohen, the move into hybrid cloud will
reduce costs and help the company with response time by being able to
scale servers based on intermediate demand. “Investing in some of these
projects will have quick payback as we move forward.”

Over the years, Rackspace and Pearl.com continue to strengthen their
relationship. “It’s going to be long and fruitful, concludes Cohen. “As
we’ve grown, we’ve faced numerous challenges, and Rackspace has always
stepped up to the plate. The people there are amazing.”

*SOURCE:  Pearl.com Fact Sheet (http://info.pearl.com/Pearl.com_FactSheet.pdf)*
