---
permalink: curing-the-migration-migraine-with-sharepoint-hosting/
audit_date:
title: "Curing The &lsquo;Migration Migraine' with SharePoint Hosting"
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-08-01'
created_by: Elaine Adams
last_modified_date: '2017-03-10'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

[Microsoft
SharePoint](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise_hosting/sharepoint/) is
a remarkable success, with more than 70% of all enterprises currently
using some version of the product. Adoption rates for SharePoint 2010
are equally robust: According to Forrester Research, 57% of the
companies surveyed had upgraded by the fourth quarter of 2011.<sup>1</sup>

Yet these numbers don’t tell the entire story. While many enterprises
have upgraded to SharePoint 2010, a significant number still have not
done so – a telling trend, given the performance enhancements, updated
feature set, deeper application integration, and other obvious
advantages to upgrading. These companies have found that the upgrade
process is more complex and expensive than expected; IT departments,
faced with what Forrester describes as a “tension between fast delivery
of abundant applications and maintenance of shared stable environments,”
lack the time and resources to implement these complex migrations and
upgrades.

With another major SharePoint upgrade coming soon, even companies that
have already upgraded to SharePoint 2010 will be forced, yet again, to
deal with this problem in the not-too-distant future. These companies
have already discovered that a properly implemented SharePoint solution
can given them a powerful competitive advantage, and they are eager to
maintain that advantage. Yet they are also wary of the cost and
complexity associated with a major SharePoint upgrade project.

There’s another important point to consider: The need for a SharePoint
environment that can accommodate future growth. Today, basic SharePoint
capabilities such as shared workspaces, intranets and company portals
are still far more common than cutting-edge applications for web content
management, records management and business intelligence.<sup>2</sup> Many
enterprises are eager to explore these enhanced features, yet their IT
organizations struggle with the resulting data storage, custom-app
development, third-party product integration, and other requirements
necessary to make the next version work.

Migrating a SharePoint environment by leveraging a service provider
model could offer a solution to these challenges by shifting some of the
infrastructure management and administrative burden to a trusted third
party provider. While many enterprises have considered this option, they
often reject it due to common misconceptions over security,
availability, lack of customization options or other issues.

These are valid concerns, and they represent real obstacles to many
SharePoint migration efforts. Given the right hosting provider, however,
and a proven migration methodology, enterprises can adopt hosted
SharePoint solutions that actually give them greater flexibility and
scalability than ever before – while minimizing long-term costs and
complexity.

The following white paper will take a closer look at why enterprises are
so wary of SharePoint hosting solutions. It will also explain how IT
organizations can identify hosting providers that can truly offer
cost-effective alternatives to traditional on-premise environments.


### Curing The Migration Migraine:

The Benefits Of Hosted SharePoint Environments

Most enterprise IT organizations are already familiar with the basic
arguments in favor of using a hosted model. They understand that
leveraging a service provider allows them to minimize capital
investments in hardware and IT infrastructure support, reaping the
benefits of an OPEX expense model. A hosted model also reduces the
burden on in-house IT staff, allowing the enterprise to align IT
resources to strategic, game-changing projects or to carry a reduced
headcount.

All of these advantages are applicable to SharePoint environments,
whether or not an enterprise has completed the SharePoint 2010 upgrade
process. A SharePoint hosting provider can assume responsibility for:

- Provisioning new physical servers and maintaining existing
hardware
- Installing and configuring software updates – whether these involve
SharePoint updates or OS patches/service packs
- Providing storage, networking and other supporting infrastructure

The resulting total cost of ownership savings compared to an on-premises
SharePoint environment can be significant. This is especially true given
the ability to take the opportunity cost savings, in terms of an IT
organization’s project-carrying capacity, and apply it to other,
high-value internal initiatives. In fact, according to a Microsoft-
sponsored whitepaper, staffing is the single largest cost component of
an in-house SharePoint solution, accounting for 60% of TCO.<sup>3</sup>

### 7 Reasons Why Hosted SharePoint Solutions Fall Short

Given these advantages, why doesn’t every enterprise move from its
on-premises SharePoint environment to a hosted model? The answer to this
question usually involves one or more of the following issues that
increase business risk, add complexity and drive up the cost of a
SharePoint migration or “migration migraines”:

**1. Compliance requirements.** A typical SharePoint environment holds a
treasure trove of proprietary business data. In addition, public
companies and those working in regulated industries have additional
concerns related to regulatory compliance.

**2. Customization concerns.** Very few enterprises migrate an
unmodified, out-of-the-box SharePoint environment. Even when a company
uses SharePoint for basic applications such as team sites and intranets,
it is likely to invest in a certain amount of custom code. The more an
enterprise depends on such code, the more it stands to lose during a
botched migration process.

**3. Third-party application availability.** SharePoint supports an
immense software ecosystem that includes more than 700,000 developers
and as many as 2,000 third-party solutions.<sup>4</sup> As a result, many
enterprises rely upon multiple third-party applications to augment their
SharePoint environments. These products can complicate a migration
process.

**4. User adoption and enablement challenges.** IT organizations dread
the prospect of a migration project that forces them to reset user
passwords or even to create new user accounts – problems that can kill
user adoption rates. Migrating to a hosted SharePoint environment can
also impact user support and training; in this area, as in others, an
enterprise will rely more upon a service provider’s support resources
rather than internal resources. In addition, some providers may lack the
resources and expertise to properly support user-enablement initiatives
such as custom dashboards and UI elements.

**5. Availability and reliability woes.** An internal IT organization
may despise the term “one neck to choke” when it comes to assigning
responsibility (or blame) for unplanned downtime. Nevertheless,
enterprises that consider SharePoint an important business tool will
expect a hosting provider to deliver industry leading uptime guarantees,
outage response-time and related service level guarantees.

**6. Lack of flexibility.** As noted previously, enterprises that use a
relatively small set of SharePoint features today may have far more
ambitious plans for the future. They are thus concerned that a hosting
provider will fail (or refuse) to support additional functionality or
new feature rollouts. A SharePoint records-management initiative, for
example, can offer important compliance and data governance benefits,
but it can also involve a complex and demanding implementation process.

**7. Fear of the unknown.** Even a simple technology migration project
involves expecting the unexpected. A SharePoint migration is anything
but simple; an IT organization must anticipate problems, create
contingency plans and prepare a detailed migration roadmap. Differences
in data structures, storage types, formats, computer systems and other
variables can all conspire to stop a SharePoint migration dead in its
tracks. The IT team thus needs to consider the role a hosting provider
can play in the actual migration process.

The risks that result from these seven issues will vary based upon the
role that SharePoint currently plays in an enterprise’s IT
infrastructure – is it of a high business importance, or does it serve a
peripheral role? An IT organization must also assess its in-house
capabilities, both present and future, before it can decide whether the
costs of a SharePoint migration outweigh the benefits.

Nevertheless, it is clear that moving from an on-premise SharePoint
environment to a hosted or managed model does involve business and
technology risks considerations. The question, then, is whether a
hosting provider can marshal the knowledge, skills and technology
capabilities to address these objections.

### Curing The Migraine: 7 Criteria For Selecting A SharePoint Hosting Provider

<img src="{% asset_path ProductivityandCollaboration/curing-the-migration-migraine-with-sharepoint-hosting/spwp1.png %}" width="314" height="641" />

In order to identify criteria, it is necessary to build a model of a
SharePoint migration and Service Provider managed SharePoint solution.
Such a solution, viewed from start to finish, will include the following
major elements:

**1. Client-appropriate security.** Security is a complex topic; it
involves physical security and virtual security, as well as protection
against unplanned downtime and other threats. Today, top-tier hosting
providers routinely offer a level of security that you find in a typical
enterprise data center or colocation environment. For enterprises,
though, SharePoint itself creates another set of unique, largely policy-
based security challenges. SharePoint administration, including
security-related tools, are notoriously complex, and basic
administrative tools may not go far enough to satisfy security
requirements.

With these challenges in mind, a SharePoint hosting provider can offer
security features with the right mix of skills and dedicated resources –
and help by applying the experience and lessons learned from building
large numbers of SharePoint environments. They can also help enterprises
create appropriate internal security policies for managing and accessing
SharePoint data stores.

**2. Uptime and SLA guarantees.** Availability and service-level
guarantees are another potential source of differentiation for hosting
providers. Given the role that SharePoint plays in many enterprises, and
the costs associated with unplanned downtime, it is reasonable for an
enterprise to demand uptime (excluding scheduled maintenance) from a
provider’s data center network, data center infrastructure and server
hardware components.

**3. A formal discovery process for a client’s SharePoint requirements.**
Hosting providers can’t just assume that a client’s
existing SharePoint environment will fit an existing implementation
model – and they certainly can’t always impose a one-size- fits-all
approach.

The hosting provider’s discovery process should thus reflect three
attributes. First, it should involve extensive, direct contact between
the provider’s SharePoint migration team and the client’s enterprise IT
team. Second, it should be collaborative process that gives the client
IT organization the opportunity to explain their current SharePoint
environment and their concerns about the migration process.

Finally, the discovery process should be forward-looking – that is, the
provider’s migration team should assess future needs to extend and
maximize an enterprise’s existing SharePoint environment.

**4. A track record of designing and building complex SharePoint
environments.** Any enterprise that uses SharePoint as a
custom-development platform will insist that a provider offer
appropriate stand-up capabilities for its migrated and hosted SharePoint
environment. This includes taking insights gleaned from the discovery
process and turning them into specific, detailed technical requirements.
It also includes a design and development staff with proven experience
standing up complex enterprise SharePoint implementations.

**5. An established SharePoint migration methodology.** The actual
process of migrating SharePoint data and other resources between an
in-house and hosted environment is fraught with uncertainty. An
enterprise IT organization is especially likely to express concern over
three issues:

- Do we have the technical and human resources to carry out a
migration?
- Does our team have the necessary mix of implementation and
integration skills?
- Can we anticipate potential problems and develop appropriate
contingency plans?

A hosting provider’s migration team, and the methodology it employs,
should specifically address all three of these questions. As a result,
it can provide the client’s IT organization with specific, dedicated
resources necessary to migrate data, deploy the new SharePoint
environment, and help with any problems that arise during the process. A
provider’s migration team should also be capable of working with an
enterprise on related legacy data migration initiatives, and if
necessary, the provider should be able to consolidate and reorganize a
SharePoint environment prior to beginning the migration process. It must
also be able to deal with the technology-integration demands associated
with a SharePoint environment, including Active Directory, Microsoft
SQL, Exchange, and other products.

**6. A forward-looking approach to SharePoint implementation.** An
on-premise SharePoint environment is usually a work in progress; users
constantly request, and expect, new features and functionality. This may
involve deploying additional, but currently unused, standard SharePoint
components; developing new custom-coded features; or integration
additional third-party applications.

A hosting provider’s in-house professional services staff can help with
implementing new features using any or all of these approaches. The
provider should also offer a standard methodology for testing and
rolling out new SharePoint functionality or custom-coded components.

**7. A strong focus on user adoption and enablement issues.** It may
sound like a stretch to expect a hosting provider to assume
responsibility for motivating, educating and empowering a company’s
SharePoint users. Yet this is an important part of an enterprise’s
in-house SharePoint deployment strategy – and as a result, it must play
an important role in a hosted or managed environment.

Some issues to consider here include:

- Can the hosting provider develop custom SharePoint dashboards and
business intelligence solutions?
- Can the provider perform user interface enhancements and
customizations?
- Can they provide training and ongoing support for both technical
and business users?
- Does their training and support model include both onsite and
remote options?

### SharePoint Hosting

Technical support is an important concern here, and for many enterprises
it will be the single most important post-implementation issue.
Nevertheless, the more strategic an enterprise’s SharePoint deployment
becomes, the more important it is to work with a hosting provider that
can deliver a full suite of customized user education, training and
empowerment solutions. This includes access to a real-world training
curriculum based on established best practices – an absolute necessity
for enterprises seeking to turn their SharePoint implementation into a
source of competitive advantage.

Many enterprises have considered moving to a hosted SharePoint
environment, and quite of few have explored their options with various
hosting providers. Unfortunately, a good number of these companies are
frustrated and disappointed with what they find – and they decide to
stay with an on-premises SharePoint environment as the lesser of two
evils.

The solution to this problem doesn’t involve lowering expectations or
giving up SharePoint’s full potential. Hosting providers that have a
solid track record of working with challenging enterprise IT
environments do exist. Once an enterprise identifies such a provider, it
can enjoy the full benefits of a hosted SharePoint environment –
including the freedom to devote money and resources to more productive
IT activities, without sacrificing the benefits associated with a
traditional, on-premises SharePoint implementation.

<sup>1</sup> <http://blogs.forrester.com/john_r_rymer/11-10-03-a_sharepoint_custom_development_strategy_is_more_crucial_now_than_ever>
<sup>2</sup> <http://www.rackspace.com/blog/some-important-points-about-sharepoint-infographic/>
<sup>3</sup> <http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/9/2/192e73a4-7abb-4bad-b469-34632d54a8a6/IDC%20Whitepaper%20Demonstrating%20Business%20Value.pdf](http://download.microsoft.com/%20download/1/9/2/192e73a4-7abb-4bad-b469-34632d54a8a6/IDC%20Whitepaper%20Demonstrating%20%20Business%20Value.pdf)
<sup>4</sup> <http://www.aisn.net/index.php/tag/sharepoint-ecosystem/>
