---
permalink: improve-the-user-experience-with-application-delivery-controllers-adcs/
audit_date:
title: Improve the User Experience with Application Delivery Controllers (ADCs)
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-07-23'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-14'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

*Written by Brian Jawalka, Rackspace Enterprise Architect*

### Introduction

Few things irritate users and web visitors more than a slow response
from a web-enabled application. This white paper highlights how today’s
new generation of application delivery controllers (ADCs) can eliminate
these delays and deliver a better user experience. It provides a brief
case study showing how ADCs have benefitted one fast-growing business.
Finally, it describes the fastest and most cost-effective way your
enterprise can gain similar benefits: by choosing a knowledgeable
hosting provider that already understands and uses this technology.

### Response time is critical for users

Users want access to their data and business apps any time, anywhere, on
any device. Many customers, too, want to interact with companies 24/7 by
consuming rich media or using e-commerce from their websites. To meet
this need, most IT departments have poured a lot of effort into making
apps available via the web. But as you know, response time is critical.
If performance lags on a web-enabled application, users quickly get
frustrated. A recent study from the Aberdeen Group showed that customer
satisfaction and conversions both start to slide measurably after only a
1-second delay in response time from a web application. Frustrated users
can mean lost revenues, wasted resources, and a tarnished image for your
enterprise and your IT team. All your efforts to deliver applications
outside the firewall can be diminished by performance slowdowns that
take away from the user experience.

### Load-balancing is not enough

Enterprises facing high network traffic traditionally relied on
load-balancers. Over the years, load balancers used a number of
different technologies: round-robin DNS, proprietary application-based
and OS-based measures, and network appliances. Each approach worked
well, for a time. But each has been overwhelmed by increasing network
traffic and a growing need for ever-better scalability, availability,
and security. By now, load balancers are simply too limited and
old-fashioned to support the intense networking demands of today.

### Introducing ADCs

In fact, load balancers have now evolved into much more powerful systems
commonly called Application Delivery Controllers (ADCs). ADCs are
network devices physically located in the data center; in the network,
they typically sit between the firewall and the web farm. ADCs offer
advanced functions like caching, compression, connection multiplexing,
SSL offload, and other technologies to significantly speed up
applications delivered via the web. “ADCs are... a distinctly new breed
providing not just availability, but performance and security. As their
name suggests, they are concerned with all aspects of delivering an
application in the best way possible,” says a white paper from F5, a
leading vendor in this space. And that’s not just the vendor view.
Industry analysts are equally positive that IT teams should be looking
into ADCs today. “Networking organizations are missing significant
opportunities to increase application performance and user experience by
ignoring this fundamental market shift,” says Gartner. The analyst firm
concludes that “properly deployed ADCs can improve application
performance.”

### Why aren't ADCs standard in every enterprise?

Gartner says that ADCs will boost the performance for internal
applications for in-house and remote employees, and for external-facing
applications for supply chain partners and customers. In short, everyone
wins from better performance. With all these benefits, why haven’t ADCs
become standard gear in every enterprise? Analysts point to several
reasons:

-   Too many IT managers still seem to be focused on load balancing, and haven’t
yet recognized the new capabilities of ADCs.
-   Too many IT departments are still organized as silos, so that networking and
application teams rarely get a chance to discuss how to improve the user
experience.
-   Implementing ADCs requires expertise and experience beyond traditional
networking skills.

Despite these factors, the overwhelming benefits of ADCs should ensure
that every enterprise soon stops refreshing its load-balancing footprint
and moves on to the next generation of technology.

### The cost of moving to ADCs

What about the cost adopting ADCs? Is it prohibitive? “In most cases,
the incremental investment in advanced ADC platforms is easily
compensated by reduced requirements for servers and bandwidth, and the
clear improvements in end-user experience and productivity,” notes
Gartner. But as you know, buying hardware is only the beginning. Next
comes the learning curve and the disruption to your other priorities.
Then you can either hire IT staff who know how to use ADCs or else send
existing staff out for training. Finally there is the process of
tweaking for weeks to achieve optimal results. Or you can take a
different path. You can turn to a knowledgeable hosting provider that
has a complete familiarity with ADC technology and can provide it as
part of any hosted solution. For example, Rackspace can discuss your
business needs and provide a cost-effective ADC solution to get your
web-based applications running without delays to deliver a much better
user experience.

### Moving to ADCs: A case study

AppRiver is a fast-growing Florida-based company that provides e-mail
security to businesses around the world. To block malware and spam, the
company’s systems routinely scan more than 1 billion e-mails a day.
Since the company was founded in 2002, Rackspace has provided managed
hosting for its servers; that way AppRiver could focus on building the
business, instead of running data centers. The company now has more than
500 servers strategically located in Dallas, Virginia, London and Hong
Kong. To ensure that AppRiver’s rapid growth would not hurt its success,
Rackspace suggested using advanced ADCs from F5 to keep the mail moving.
Today AppRiver uses several F5 BIG-IP® Local Traffic Managers to help
secure, optimize, and deliver its mail-scanning applications... quickly
and reliably. The results have been very positive. “Before we began
researching application delivery solutions, end-user application
performance and availability were key concerns,” said David Liberatore,
Director of Network Infrastructure, AppRiver. “Since we’ve implemented a
F5 BIG-IP solution, end-user application performance has increased 40%,
support tickets for our teams have decreased, and we can now focus our
resources on feature improvement and product development.”

### Conclusion: ADCs are here to stay

Since ADCs are proven to speed up the delivery of web-enabled
applications and deliver a better user experience, every IT manager
should be looking into these now. ADCs are a new generation in
technology that’s clearly here to stay. The fastest and most
cost-effective way for your enterprise to gain the benefit of this
technology is to choose a knowledgeable hosting provider that already
understands and uses it every day... and is standing ready to match your
business needs with the perfectly-sized system.

***Brian Jawalka, an Enterprise Architect at Rackspace Hosting, assists
Enterprise customers with architecting their hosting environments to
ensure optimal performance. He is highly knowledgeable on server
security and storage with an expertise in F5TM and NetAppTM devices.
Brian can be reached at <brian.jawalka@rackspace.com>.***
