---
permalink: a-high-street-alternative-in-the-rackspace-hybrid-cloud/
audit_date:
title: A High Street Alternative in the Rackspace Hybrid Cloud
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-10-01'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-16'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.notonthehighstreet.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/a-high-street-alternative-in-the-rackspace-hybrid-cloud/notonhighstreet.png %}" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Notonthehighstreet.com brings together over 3,500
independent small UK businesses that combined sell over 80,000 products.

**CHALLENGES:** Notonthehighstreet.com needed a flexible hosting
solution to accommodate seasonal spikes in traffic.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Hybrid
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/), [Managed
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
[RackConnect<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions/hybrid_hosting/rackconnect/),
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Notonthehighstreet.com can now scale up and down as
traffic demands and instantaneously deliver their content over the
[Akamai Content Delivery Network](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files/technology/?page=cdn).

### Rackspace Helps notonthehighstreet.com Champion British Talent and Design

Award-winning online marketplace notonthehighstreet.com is one of the
most high-profile e-commerce businesses in the UK and has experienced
explosive growth since the company was founded seven years ago by
entrepreneurs Holly Tucker and Sophie Cornish.

Notonthehighstreet.com brings together over 3,500 independent small UK
businesses that combined sell over 80,000 products. Each small business
seller has been carefully chosen by notonthehighstreet.com for its
innovative, well-made products to inspire shoppers looking for style,
originality and quality, but who never seem to find it on the high
street.

From garden to gourmet, lingerie to linen, bracelets to handbags,
cushions to children’s clothes, scarves to stationery,
notonthehighstreet.com has a fantastic range of beautifully made,
original products. Thousands of items are available to buy from a choice
of departments: home & garden, women, men, baby & child, gifts and
wedding.

Beyond delivering a vast range of products to customers across the
country, notonthehighstreet.com also champions small businesses by
making sure that their site showcases their products in the best
possible way. To help achieve this, notonthehighstreet.com host their
business with Rackspace.

### Evolving Solution For Evolving Needs

Notonthehighstreet.com moved to Rackspace several years ago. They
selected Rackspace based on its reputation for excellence and support,
and the relationship has continued to develop as the company has grown
and evolved.

Steve Morgan, head of development at notonthehighstreet.com, says, “Our
founders are true visionaries that never rest in their desire to bring
beautiful products to market. This level of innovation means that our IT
infrastructure has to be flexible. As new projects come online we need
to be able to take them live quickly—for example, when our founders
published their book, *Build a Business from Your Kitchen Table*, we
needed to build and launch a new website on a new domain very quickly.”

“Rackspace have become essentially an extension of our in-house team,”
he continues. “Their managed hosting solution means that we do not have
the expense and waiting times that go with purchasing new hardware and
also enables us to automate as many processes as possible, leaving us
free to focus on bigger opportunitiesand projects. They also make
proactive recommendations that ensure that we have the best architecture
for our needs at every step of the way.”

### A Flexible, Scalable Solution for an Event-Driven Business

Notonthehighstreet.com do around half of their annual sales in the last
few months of the year and serve 40 to 50 million page views per month
in the run up to Christmas, Valentine's Day, and Mothering Sunday. This
means that reliability, uptime, and scalability are paramount. To
complement their managed dedicated server infrastructure,
notonthehighstreet.com have started to expand into the cloud by
implementing a unique hybrid solution using
[RackConnect<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions/hybrid_hosting/rackconnect/).

“Our dedicated servers provide us with the capacity we need combined
with the high level of control and security required for us to transact
payments and meet our PCI compliance obligations,” says Morgan. “But, as
we continue to grow, we need to harness the scalability and flexibility
of the cloud in order to meet both the predictable and unpredictable
peaks and troughs we will inevitably experience. RackConnect bridges our
dedicated and public cloud servers and we now have a best-of-both-worlds
solution that will ensure that we can continue to deliver the best
possible marketplace experience for both buyers and sellers.”

Notonthehighstreet.com can now scale up and down as traffic demands and
deliver their content over the Akamai Content Delivery Network, so no
matter where their customers are, what device they are using, or how
busy the site is, they will get the experience they have come to expect
from notonthehighstreet.com. Likewise, sellers get to showcase their
products and process orders as fast as possible.

### Invaluable Support

Morgan says. “A very strong relationship has developed between our two
businesses and we take joint ownership of the performance of our
infrastructure. They are on hand 24/7/365 days a year, and we appreciate
the high levels of experience and expertise they offer. What’s more,
their 100% uptime guarantee is not just a sales gimmick; it is something
they are committed to delivering.”
