---
permalink: appboy-relies-on-a-hybrid-infrastructure-to-manage-traffic-spikes/
audit_date:
title: Appboy Relies on a Hybrid Infrastructure to Manage Traffic Spikes
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-22'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-17'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.appboy.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/appboy-relies-on-a-hybrid-infrastructure-to-manage-traffic-spikes/AppBoy.png %}" width="300" height="105" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Appboy is the leading platform for mobile
relationship management, offering data-driven user segmentation,
multi-channel messaging, and numerous other in-app features, helping
mobile app creators manage the life cycle of their users through a suite
of marketing automation products and a team of mobile marketing experts.

**CHALLENGES:** Appboy is faced with huge spikes in traffic that far
surpass the normal day-to-day load, as promotions or messaging drive
waves of users to and from their customers’ apps.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Hybrid
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/),
[Managed Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/),
[Rackspace DevOps](http://www.rackspace.com/devops/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Rackspace engineers helped design a solution for
Appboy that handles intense load in real time, giving Appboy full
control over their servers with the ability to increase their fleet.
They can now rely on Rackspace DevOps experts to manage incidences and
find targeted solutions.

### Rackspace has given Appboy the flexibility and scalability to handle whatever the future brings.

Appboy is the leading platform for mobile relationship management,
helping mobile app creators’ move “beyond the download” and manage the
complete lifecycle of their users. The company currently serves several
hundred customers across a variety of industries, from publishing to
gaming, providing a suite of marketing automation products and a team of
mobile marketing experts. Appboy has been gaining steady traction since
it was founded in 2011 by Mark Ghermezian, Bill Magnuson and John Hyman,
but the pace of growth has increased dramatically over the course of the
past year, with the company increasing to twenty times its previous
size.

While Appboy is delighted by their mounting success, the rapid growth
has brought the company new challenges, especially at the infrastructure
level. They require an ever-increasing number of servers, often with
powerful processing capabilities to enable the real-time analytics they
offer their customers, and they also need to manage dramatic spikes in
traffic, which are commonplace in the mobile app world. As Appboy aims
for the stars, they’ve come to Rackspace to help them manage this
complexity and provide the expertise and support required to take their
business to the next level.

### Off to a Good Start with Rackspace

According to CIO John Hyman, things are off to a good start with
Rackspace: “So far the experience has been overwhelmingly positive,”
Hyman says. “Since signing up with Rackspace, I’ve had constant
interaction with our account management team, who has really made sure
that our process of coming on board has gone smoothly.” Hyman recently
paid a visit to Rackspace headquarters in San Antonio to meet with the
team dedicated to building Appboy’s solutions and furthering their
DevOps organization. “It’s just been very, very helpful,” he says of the
support and expertise he received from the Rackspace team. “More than I
could even imagine.”

Appboy first came to Rackspace because as the company has grown, their
infrastructure has become more complex and help was needed to manage
that complexity. “The number of servers we need is growing at an
incredible rate and so having someone who can help us tame that
environment is very useful,” Hyman explains. In his view, one key
advantage of working with Rackspace to manage Appboy’s infrastructure is
that he can trust in their expertise and let them take work off his
plate. “They can take over infrastructure and really understand
everything we’re running on — I don’t need to be involved. I don’t need
to hire a team to manage our infrastructure. I can offload all that to
Rackspace.”

### Appboy Manage Spikes in Traffic with Rackspace Hybrid

One of Appboy’s primary challenges is handling the huge spikes in
traffic that are common in the mobile app business. A customer’s app
might be featured in Apple’s AppStore, sending download rates
skyrocketing, or an engaging message might bring a huge flock of users
back to an app all at the same time. Traffic can quickly surpass the
normal day-to-day load and Appboy suddenly requires much greater server
capacity to keep up.

After meeting with Hyman and evaluating Appboy’s needs, Rackspace
suggested a hybrid infrastructure model, giving Appboy dedicated
physical servers to handle base traffic and the ability to burst into
the cloud to handle the big spikes.

Appboy is focused on improving boot startup time, to ensure they can get
new servers online and ready as quickly as possible when the need
arises. Hyman estimates that before coming to Rackspace it took Appboy
20 to 30 minutes to get enough additional servers online, with all the
necessary software and tools, during a traffic surge. One of his main
goals was to reduce that time. “One thing I’ve really liked so far is
the willingness of Rackspace engineers to help us increase start-up
times of our servers.” He reports that so far Rackspace engineers have
helped reduced the server build times to less than 10 minutes, and he’s
optimistic they can reduce that time even further.

### Tackling New Challenges

The agile development team inside Appboy deploys new features at least
once a week, and sometimes even more often. These constant changes mean
that the company regularly faces new challenges. For example, a new
feature might suddenly require more intensive CPU processing for their
real-time analytics engine, which means they need more servers to crunch
data as it comes in.

Before coming to Rackspace, Hyman says some of the services the app uses
to handle things like queuing or processing analytics were starting to
break down under the massive load. Rackspace engineers have been able to
help Appboy find solutions and ensure that even during the highest
peaks, they’re able to process everything in real time. Hyman says
Rackspace experts have also been instrumental in improving DevOps
organization, an area he previously tackled on his own. “One of the best
things I’m getting from Rackspace is their expertise in DevOps and
server automation. Having a Rackspace team with experts skilled in
server automation and Chef – they know how to build the platform and
follow all the best-practices, which is going to make our environment
management much simpler.”
