---
permalink: appriver-outsources-hosting-to-rackspace-and-keeps-its-focus-on-building-business/
audit_date:
title: AppRiver Outsources Hosting to Rackspace and Keeps Its Focus on Building Business
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-27'
created_by: Karla Holmes
last_modified_date: '2017-03-17'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.appriver.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/appriver-outsources-hosting-to-rackspace-and-keeps-its-focus-on-building-business/appriverlogo.png %}" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Enterprise Email and Web Security SaaS Provider

**CHALLENGES:** Keep operating costs low; Focus on core business; Network uptime

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
[Dedicated network
gear](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/), [F5 Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/),
[Advanced
monitoring](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/reporting/urlmonitoring/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Continued growth with low operating costs

### Company Overview

The founders of AppRiver had a powerful solution for identifying and
filtering spam and virus-laden email messages for business customers.
But they wanted to be in the business of managing and delivering their
service, not managing and maintaining the servers supporting the
service. They knew that [Rackspace](http://www.rackspace.com/) could
provide the core services they needed to support their business
model—and that by outsourcing their hosting to Rackspace they could
focus on building their business and supporting their customers. Today,
AppRiver’s focus has not shifted: It has built its business to the point
where it filters as many as one billion mail messages per day for more
than 40,000 customers around the world—and it relies on Rackspace to
manage the more than 500 servers that keep its antispam and antivirus
filters running around the clock.

### The Situation

In 2002, as it was becoming abundantly apparent that the virtual
arteries of the Internet were soon to be blocked by spam, the founders
of AppRiver embarked on an ambitious mission: Become a price/performance
leader in the email security industry by offering an affordable service
that would filter out spam, mail-born viruses, Trojan horses, and the
like from a customer’s incoming mail stream—before it arrived at the
company’s mail server, let alone an end user’s inbox. AppRiver had the
expertise to build the filtering applications; it had the sales and
marketing people who could promote the vision, cultivate strong customer
relationships and sell the services. What it did not have was a data
center or an operations team that could ensure uninterrupted network
connectivity, server integrity and rapid response to service requests on
a round-the-clock basis. Nor did it want such things.

What AppRiver’s founders wanted was to deliver an easy-to-use, effective
and affordable service that would protect clients from troublesome email
invasions—and to outsource those aspects of the business that fell
outside this goal. Rather than hiring and training a staff to maintain a
data center on a 24x7 basis, AppRiver founders wanted to focus on hiring
experts in spam and virus analytics, and build up a core technical
support team.

The question for AppRiver’s founders was never whether to outsource the
day-to-day tasks of administering and maintaining a data center. They
knew they could not operate a data center with the same level of
efficiency as a hosting service provider, and any attempt to do so would
simply increase the cost of delivering the service, which would go
against the core price/performance business model. The question was
which service provider they could trust to deliver the level of
availability, service and support that the AppRiver business model
required.

“I knew from previous experience that Rackspace always shows up on the
compilations of well- regarded, trusted service providers,” says Joel
Smith, an AppRiver cofounder and its Chief Technical Officer (CTO). “So
we decided to give them a try.”

### The Solution

AppRiver’s antispam and antivirus services are relatively simple in
their execution. When a customer subscribes to a service, AppRiver
begins to intercept all mail bound for the customer’s mail server.
AppRiver’s SpamLabTM system scans all the inbound mail for traces of
spam and viruses, and then passes all the uninfected, nonspam messages
to the customer’s mail server, where they are distributed to the
appropriate end-user inboxes.

What is simple conceptually, however, is more complicated in actuality.
AppRiver and Rackspace have worked together closely to create precisely
the server configuration that best supports this activity. “I had the
solution all figured out when I first met with Rackspace,” says Smith,
“but after running the software for a while and seeing how it was
working, we realized we needed to make some changes. Rackspace worked
closely with us to develop the server configuration that was just right
for our needs.”

Initially, AppRiver required only a few servers—which have come to be
known as AppRiver Specials—to support its service. Today, AppRiver
relies on well over 500 AppRiver Specials to deliver its service. On any
given day, AppRiver’s systems filters as many as one billion mail
messages for more than 40,000 customers around the world.

“The growth of AppRiver has been exciting to watch,” says Graham Weston,
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Rackspace. “Early on, the founders
realized the price and performance benefits of outsourcing nonstrategic
areas of their business. It was important for them to focus on their
core competencies and put their infrastructure in the hands of a trusted
partner. By trusting Rackspace to manage the infrastructure, AppRiver
had time to develop the heart of their company: unyielding performance
and quality customer support. Their model is enabling them to carve out
a leadership position in the email security market.”

### The Teeth of the AppRiver Service: SpamLab

AppRiver’s SpamLabTM system relies on the interaction of several
integrated proprietary applications. Its virus detection engine was
developed internally, but it works with a variety of virus signature
descriptors. It relies on three different virus signature lists because
each security vendor updates its virus signature lists at different
times—and a new signature may appear on one list hours or even days
before it appears on another. By relying on three separate lists,
AppRiver increases the likelihood that it will be able to protect its
clients well in advance of any major virus outbreaks.

Similarly, AppRiver’s spam detection engine is internally built and
relies on more than 60 types of spam filtering techniques—so it quickly
stymies the efforts of spammers. Moreover, because AppRiver is scanning
so much mail for so many clients, its systems are quick to detect new
spam campaigns. “We can write a signature within a few minutes to block
mail from spammers,” says Smith.

### The Benefits

For AppRiver, the [Managed Operations
model](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/) is a
perfect fit. Rackspace ensures the network availability and system
uptime required by AppRiver’s applications (which filter incoming mail
on a 24x7 basis). The [Rackspace Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>
team](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) provides the
resources that make it easy for AppRiver to expand its system
configuration quickly in response to new business.

### Non-stop Support for Nonstop Businesses

Spam never sleeps, so neither do the filtering systems at AppRiver. For
that reason, AppRiver executives knew they would need a service provider
that could ensure uninterrupted network and server availability. With a
history of 100% network availability that stretches back more than two
years and the Fanatical Support commitment to customer service,
Rackspace has been able to meet AppRiver’s needs in this area easily.

### Designing the Solution That Meets Customer Needs

“Their proactive approach to managing our multitude of servers is an
incredible benefit,” says Smith. “They were very helpful when it came to
creating our AppRiver Specials, and they’ve helped us in other areas,
too. We required an upscale routing and load-balancing configuration for
our service. Over the course of two weeks, Rackspace worked closely with
Cisco and with us to produce the configuration that met this essential
need.”

### Enabling Rapid Business Expansion

For AppRiver, one of the biggest benefits of outsourcing its
infrastructure to Rackspace is the fact that it allows AppRiver to
convert a high percentage of its efforts directly into customer value.
“It’s important to us to squeeze as much performance as possible out of
every dollar our clients exchange for our service,” says Michael
Murdoch, AppRiver’s President and CEO. “Our relationship with Rackspace
has enabled us to increase the support and service we offer our clients
without scaling up our costs. We have grown more quickly than expected,
which is never a complaint but can be difficult to manage. By
outsourcing our infrastructure to Rackspace, we are able to meet the
needs of our continually increasing customer base without changing our
cost structure or sacrificing performance.”

AppRiver’s ability to expand as quickly as it has is not just a
consequence of Rackspace providing the round-the-clock data center
personnel. It’s also the result of relying on Rackspace to provide
virtually every aspect of the data center and infrastructure supporting
AppRiver’s software.

“Having Rackspace in the picture takes an incredible factor off the
table,” says Smith. “As we grow, we don’t have to think about things
like power consumption or battery backups—all the details that we’d have
to factor into the equation if we were trying to expand our business
while managing all these systems ourselves. All we have to do is
concentrate on our applications, making them better than ever to suit
our customers—for we know Rackspace is going to hold up their end of the
bargain.”

For AppRiver, the logic of working with Rackspace remains, even after
two and a half years, irrefutable. “If you really like experimenting
with your own equipment, taking servers down and putting them back up,
good for you,” says Smith. “But if you want to stay focused, hand all
that off to Rackspace and be done with it. It would take millions of
dollars and years of personnel time to create what Rackspace has already
done, so why not just hop on that bandwagon and do it?”

“We work with customers in many time zones, and it’s important that
we’re able to support them 24x7. We can call Rackspace at 2 A.M. on
Christmas morning—which happened once— and they’re there.” Joel Smith,
CTO, AppRiver
