---
permalink: australian-cloud-provider-zeara-achieves-linear-scale-growth/
audit_date:
title: Australian Cloud Provider Zeara Achieves Linear Scale Growth
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-16'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-17'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://zeara.com.au/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/australian-cloud-provider-zeara-achieves-linear-scale-growth/zeara.png %}" width="396" height="114" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Zeara is one of Australia’s leading cloud
solution providers, developing, managing, and supporting market leading
cloud products and services.

**CHALLENGES:** Zeara had partnered with several local Australian
hosting providers, ending in the same result of poor service and
support.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/), [Rackspace Hosted
Exchange](http://www.rackspace.com/email-hosting/hosted-exchange/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Partnering with Rackspace has allowed the Zeara
footprint to grow on a linear scale, and customers are now experiencing
100% uptime.

### **With Rackspace infrastructure, services and support, clients are now experience 100% uptime.**

Zeara is one of Australia’s leading cloud solution providers with more
than five years’ experience developing, managing, and supporting market
leading cloud products and services. The company partners with companies
who recognise the importance of having a cloud strategy in place to
drive further business growth and increase profits. Zeara currently
offers tailored cloud solutions built on our cloud platform that include
hosted desktop, hosted applications and cloud servers.

As one of Australia’s leading cloud solution providers, Zeara had
partnered with several local hosting providers, ending in the same
result of poor service and support. Zeara’s General Manager, Daniel
Keleher is the person responsible for overall business management,
finances, operations and team development, as well as being the lead in
securing a trusted hosting provider for the company. Keleher says,
“Previous hosting providers didn’t provide any support with which we
could trust. Outages and maintenance were performed without any
notification. They were making us look bad to our clients, while we were
continually doing everything possible to deliver on the experience and
then being badly let down by our infrastructure provider. It was
extremely frustrating.”

### Rackspace Footprint in Australia

With the goal of finding a trusted hosting provider that could deliver
the proper infrastructure for Zeara, coupled with service and support,
Keleher continued testing local providers. Managing hardware and
platform, with core routing and Australia based 24/7/365 support were
the core competencies that Zeara was unable to find within the locally
based hosting provider network.

Building a partnership with a trusted hosting provider was paramount for
Zeara. As Rackspace announced that the Australian continent was opening
as part of its global expansion, excitement grew inside the development
team at Zeara. Keleher explains, “We had basically tested every hosting
provider in Australia. As soon as we heard Rackspace were coming to
Australia, we were one of the first to jump onboard.”

### Migrating to a Trusted Hosting Partner

With the Rackspace footprint established in Australia, data centres
online and local support up and running, Zeara made the commitment to
partner with and migrate its infrastructure to its new trusted global
hosting partner. “Everything regarding the migration of Zeara to
Rackspace was made very clear to us from the beginning,” Keleher says.
“We had to provide certain information about the setup and design by a
deadline. We knew if we missed the deadline it would delay the roll
out.”

“Of course we had a number of questions along the way and they were
addressed over email or a phone meeting to ensure everyone was on the
same page,” says Keleher. With the migration strategy collaboration
between the two companies deployed, it was obvious to Zeara that the
support level they had been searching for was achieved. “Fanatical
support – It’s not just a motto,” continues Keleher. “Rackspace
delivered on it time and time again throughout the migration process and
beyond. It’s crucial for us. Our business is now built on Rackspace,
it’s that simple.”

### Growing Business on a Linear Scale

Fully deployed on Rackspace for nearly two years now, Zeara is prepared
for growth. “Using Rackspace has allowed our footprint to grow on a
linear scale,” Keleher says. “This is very important to us and keeps us
one step ahead of our competitors without compromising on security and
performance of our cloud platform.”

With performance, security and support dialed in, customers have nothing
to worry about when deploying Zeara’s market leading cloud products and
services. Keleher is pleased to announce that, “since the migration to
Rackspace, we have experienced 100 % uptime and only twice for a period
of less than five minutes was the performance degraded due to denial of
service attacks.”

And the future looks bright for Zeara with Rackspace as a trusted global
hosting provider. “We plan to continue building on the successful
relationship with Rackspace moving forward,” concludes Keleher. “We are
looking at incorporating other Rackspace products and services to
continue providing our clients with cost effective and flexible cloud
solutions.”
