---
permalink: cloud-files-powers-next-gen-job-searches/
audit_date:
title: Cloud Files Powers Next-Gen Job Searches
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-03-11'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-18'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="https://workforpie.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/cloud-files-powers-next-gen-job-searches/workforpie.png %}" width="247" height="155" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Work for Pie is a startup striving to simplify
the recruiting and job search process for tech companies and
developers.

**CHALLENGES:** Work for Pie needs a flexible, scalable infrastructure
that’s easy on their budget.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** Rackspace [Cloud
Files](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/) and
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/servers/)
offer an affordable solution without skimping on service or support.

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Rackspace Cloud Files complement Rackspace Cloud
Servers perfectly, conserving computing power and giving the startup
unlimited room to grow.

### Rackspace Cloud Files and the Akamai CDN allow Work for Pie to revolutionize recruiting for technology companies and developers.

Based in Memphis, Tennessee, Work for Pie is a startup striving to
simplify the recruiting and job search process for tech companies and
developers. Their website features developer portfolios — updated in
real time as projects progress — as well as company profiles that cover
everything developers need to know about prospective employers.

With a matchmaking mentality, the company emphasizes quality over
quantity and places a premium on developer-employer compatibility. “If
you go to Monster,” says cofounder Brad Montgomery, “you’ll get a
hundred résumés, but maybe zero hits out of those hundred. We want to
give you two résumés that are both awesome fits for you.”

Work for Pie’s team may be small — consisting solely of cofounder Brad
Montgomery and CEO Cliff McKinney — but the company’s potential is huge.
Rackspace Cloud Servers and Cloud Files have allowed them to compete in
a crowded field, maximizing power and scalability on a minimal budget.

### Premium power on a bootstrap budget

Though Work for Pie was founded in 2011, Montgomery has been a Rackspace
customer since 2009, hosting his personal work on Cloud Servers. He’s
been so impressed with the service that server hosting’s been a
no-brainer ever since: “Any new project, that’s where we go,” he says.

In addition to Montgomery’s history with Rackspace, affordability and
scalability were major factors in Work for Pie’s decision to cloud their
latest venture. “We're not completely bootstrapped, but we're running
our tech stack as if we were, so affordable services are a really big
deal,” says Montgomery. “We haven't yet seen really large-scale traffic,
but having the option to scale up when we need it is very important.”

“I think the ‘pay for what you use’ model is a really cost-effective
option for small startups,” he continues, “and the flexibility of Cloud
Servers really lets us get our product built and deployed much more
quickly—we can automate provisioning, configuration, and deployment in a
way that's much easier than what we'd be doing if we had dedicated
hardware.”

Once a startup itself, Rackspace is particularly attuned to the needs of
new companies, and Work for Pie experienced the company’s commitment to
growing businesses firsthand. “We went through a startup accelerator
program here in Memphis called [Seed
Hatchery](http://www.seedhatchery.com/), and they were actually part of
the [Rackspace Startup
Program](http://www.rackspacestartups.com/seedhatchery/index.html),”
McKinney says. “Rackspace is doing a really good job supporting startup
ecosystems all over the place.”

### Building a strong visual identity with Rackspace Cloud Files

The team began building Work for Pie on Rackspace Cloud Servers. “We
have a web-based app that is written in Python and uses Django,”
McKinney explains. “It’s really a very simple architecture. We use Cloud
Servers to power a PostgreSQL database and application servers on top of
that.” Eventually, they decided to add Rackspace Cloud Files to store
and serve all of the media on their design-conscious site.

While most job-search sites are heavy on text and light on looks, Work
for Pie’s design incorporates colorful infographics and allows both
employers and developers to display numerous photographs and images on
their profiles. Work for Pie uses Cloud Files for “images that our users
upload — avatars, photos of office space, company logos, that sort of
thing — as well as our Javascript, our CSS, and any of our own images,
background images, and other parts of our website,” according to
Montgomery.

“Cloud Files lets us separate our file storage from our computing
power,” he says. “This separation of concerns allows us to build and
maintain a more flexible infrastructure and keep costs down while having
the ability to scale up within minutes. That’s how a two-man startup can
quickly build reliable services that compete with much larger
companies.”

### Cloud Files clobbers the competition

While they also considered Amazon S3, Cloud Files’ [open-source
availability](http://www.rackspace.com/open-cloud/), reliable Akamai
CDN, and convenience ultimately won out. Rackspace Cloud Files’
extensive, constantly updated code libraries were a major draw. Cloud
Files’ standards-based API supports Java, .NET, PHP, Ruby, and Python
bindings. Montgomery says, “We're a Python shop, and having high-quality
Python libraries for the Cloud Files API — both command-line tools and
tools to integrate with Django — made Rackspace an easy choice.”

Montgomery was also impressed by the reputation of [Cloud Files Akamai
CDN](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files/technology/?page=cdn).
“Rackspace Cloud Files is backed by a reliable, high-quality CDN,”
Montgomery says. “I'd heard nothing but good things from other
customers, and files can be served over SSL.”

Finally, says Montgomery, Rackspace Cloud Files is convenient: “It's
really nice to have both management tools — web-based dashboards, et
cetera — and billing combined into one service.”

### SUPERIOR STABILITY AND FANATICAL SUPPORT<sup>&reg;</sup>

Rackspace Cloud Files’ and Servers’ stability mean that Work for Pie has
rarely needed to make use of [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/), but
Montgomery is glad to know he’ll have a helping hand whenever he needs it.
“Rackspace's service has been so reliable that I've only once needed
support for Work for Pie,” he says. “This was with regards to serving
CDN content over SSL and was quickly resolved during a chat session.”

“It's nice to have issues resolved in minutes-to-hours instead of
days-to-weeks,” he continues. “There’s a reason Rackspace advertises
Fanatical Support. My experience with other companies has not been
nearly as expedient or helpful.”

Will Rackspace continue to be Montgomery and Work for Pie’s go-to?
Absolutely. “I’ve been so pleased with Rackspace that I have recommended
these services to others,” he says. “It’s been great. I’m a happy
camper.”
