---
permalink: coastalcom-grows-globally-online-with-a-hybrid-hosting-solution/
audit_date:
title: Coastal.com Grows Globally Online With a Hybrid Hosting Solution
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-06-26'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-21'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.coastal.com/">
    <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/coastalcom-grows-globally-online-with-a-hybrid-hosting-solution/coastal-1.png %}" width="419" height="113" />
</a>
**Leveraging new technology, architecture and software with no vendor lock-in
at Rackspace**

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** The largest online retailer of eyeglasses and
contact lenses in North America

**CHALLENGES:** Technology that would allow Coastal.com to grow into a
global ecommerce company online, with the ability to leverage new
technology, architecture and software with no vendor lock-in

**RACKSPAC<sup>&reg;</sup>E SOLUTION:**
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/),
[Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
and [Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/) all backed
by [Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Coastal.com now has the ability to scale
exponentially with open cloud technology, with little or no downtime,
allowing the company to grow as the business does

Coastal.com has become the largest online retailer of eyeglasses and
contact lenses in North America, by offering an alternative method of
purchasing eyewear online, and supplying their customers with the same
designer brands and products offered in brick-and-mortar stores for half
the price. Founded by Roger Hardy in British Columbia, Canada in 2000,
Coastal.com offers a unique selection of eyewear styles from geek chic
to business casual, carefully selected based on fashion trends and
feedback from customers.

Living up to the statement “The Better Way to Buy Eyewear,” Coastal.com
has locked up the online eyeglass and contact lenses market in North
America, and is looking to replicate globally, currently with visibility
in South America, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Sweden. Glasses are
manufactured in North America with the highest quality materials by the
fabulously talented Coastal.com team, and delivered directly to the
purchasers’ home or office anywhere in the world.

### Solutions were the differentiator

In 2002, Coastal.com moved to Rackspace from another hosting provider.
The differentiator for Coastal.com to make a move to Rackspace over
other service providers was solutions. Sunny Dhillon, Technical
Operations Manager, Coastal.com explains, “we found that Rackspace does
not have template solutions, and they were willing to work with us in
order to provide a customized set of solutions from server
configurations, to architecture, and new technologies.”

Rackspace provides a completely segregated [hybrid
network](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) for Coastal.com. “All
of our [ecommerce servers](http://www.rackspace.com/ecommerce-hosting/)
are managed and hosted at Rackspace,” says Dhillon. “Anything that is
critical and we want no downtime for, it’s at Rackspace. We use
[RackConnect](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/),
[open cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/open-cloud/) and we’ve got our own
private servers as well with Rackspace to create our hybrid environment.
To begin with, it was a front end web server and a backend database that
we used. It’s evolved into over 25 front end servers, back end servers,
clustering, failover, redundancy.”

Leveraging new technology, architecture and software with no vendor
lock-in at Rackspace allows Coastal.com to evolve into an online global
ecommerce company. And in the ecommerce world, [PCI
compliance](http://www.rackspace.com/ecommerce-hosting/pci/) is of the
upmost importance for Coastal.com. “Rackspace is definitely a trusted
partner considering we have to be PCI compliant,” says Dhillon. “We are
in the ecommerce environment, so we’re kind of like a merchant bank,
where we are actually taking credit card payments. We wouldn’t do
business with Rackspace if they weren’t a trusted provider. As we’re
working with them, we see that more and more.”

### An extension of the team

Along with a [hybrid hosting
solution](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/), Rackspace afforded
Coastal.com with exceptional support from their technical team inside
the hosting company. Dhillon explains, “There is no segregation inside
Rackspace, and the support staff doesn’t mind if you do call them when
you need to get something critical resolved. With Rackspace, we
definitely feel that the employees and staff are an extension of our
team.”

And, with Fanatical Support the Coastal.com team has access to the
Rackspace support team if something critical needs to be resolved at any
hour of the day, including weekends and holidays. Dhillon says, “I don’t
have any issues with calling our account manager or someone technical,
rather than going through the whole process of raising a ticket, which
we can do as well.”

### Growing with a trusted provider

And lastly, Coastal.com needed the assurance that dedicated servers,
handling the base load, could be spun up within a 24-hour period to
assist with any heavy traffic loads which would help with peaks and
spikes in the cloud servers during holiday months, and expected no down
time from the hybrid cloud environment. “The major benefit that
Rackspace provides Coastal.com is the ability to scale exponentially
with [open cloud technology](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/openstack/),
with little or no downtime, allowing the company to grow as the business
does,” says Dhillon. “This provides Coastal.com a platform to provision
services which are up and running immediately, without planning years in
advance.”

“Rackspace has become a trusted provider of Coastal.com, so much so,
that we plan to move all of our critical systems to Rackspace by 2014,
with the exception of in-house stage and development environments,”
concludes Dhillon.
