---
permalink: cramer-development-gets-the-right-fit-for-their-clients/
audit_date:
title: Cramer Development Gets the Right Fit for their Clients
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-28'
created_by: Karla Holmes
last_modified_date: '2017-03-21'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://cramerdev.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/cramer-development-gets-the-right-fit-for-their-clients/cramerdev.png %}" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Web Application Development

**WHAT THEY DO:** Provide strategic planning and consulting, website
design, and application development services to help businesses
establish web products and web-based businesses.

**IT GOALS:** Supply on-demand access to scalable infrastructure to
test, build, and launch client websites and applications.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:**  [Hybrid
hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions.php) with Rackspace
broad range of services provides Cramer Development with the flexibility
to address needs ranging from simple web sites to complex web-based
applications

**BENEFITS:** Access to a broad portfolio of hosting solutions, ability
to tailor platforms to meet client needs, [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) and
the 100% [Network Uptime
SLA](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/network/index.php)

[**Click here to download the full case study.**](http://c1776742.r42.cf0.rackcdn.com/downloads/pdfs/CaseStudy_CramerDev.pdf)

### Company Overview

Leveraging a nationwide, distributed team of passionate design and
engineering staff, Cramer Development works with businesses of all sizes
to bring new sites, website redesigns, and other online projects to
life. In 2006, they launched a revolutionary web publishing platform
called Markup Factory. The platform offers web designers the ability to
quickly create stunning, usable, feature-rich websites without
navigating code.

Since opening their doors in 2000, they’ve built websites and ecommerce
applications that have achieved notable successes, including the first
ever Vet-VIPPS (Veterinary-Verified Internet Pharmacy Practice Sites)
accredited website and sites featured on CSS Beauty and Best Web
Gallery.

Because their clients rely on site availability for success, Cramer
Development needed a hosting provider, to help them balance
availability, functionality, and spending requirements for small budget
sites all the way up to large, high-volume sites.

### Rackspace Hybrid Hosting Provides Flexible Solutions

Because no two clients are the same, Cramer Development is keenly aware
of the need for customizable platforms. Clients come to Cramer
Development with technology requirements ranging from startup planning
to growth management. “Some of our startups go on Rackspace Dedicated
Hosting at our recommendation, and others have switched to Rackspace
after experiencing costly and inconvenient downtime with other
providers,” says Josh Cramer, Founder and President of Cramer
Development.

Rackspace’s combination of around-the-clock ***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***,
managed data backup services, and redundant hardware solutions are the answer
to many of the infrastructure-layer requirements of the firm’s clients.
“For companies whose success relies on their web hosting infrastructure
performing 24x7x365, Rackspace offers all the features they need,” Josh
states.

Cramer Development’s clients choose Rackspace based on the firm’s
trusted recommendation and the reputation Rackspace has built over the
last decade as a specialist in the hosting and cloud computing industry.
“Rackspace is a premium hosting provider, and it shows in the knowledge
and reputation of the staff,” says Josh.

### How Cramer Development Uses Hybrid Hosting

#### To Access Greater Flexibility

 With the flexibility of multiple platforms in the Rackspace portfolio,
they can stitch together custom solutions to solve clients’ problems.
For clients with applications that are truly mission critical to their
core business, Cramer chooses dedicated hardware for the highest
performance and availability. The Rackspace Cloud gives many of Cramer
Development’s clients the ability to quickly scale to meet demand, while
allowing the team to customize the code for each client, choose the
right platform, and add other infrastructure layers to suit their
application design. And if they had a client whose needs required pieces
of dedicated and cloud architecture, Rackspace portfolio includes the
[RackConnect](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions/hybrid_hosting/rackconnect/)
option.

For some clients who are just using something simple like, Wordpress, we
can put them on Cloud Sites; but other applications, like Ruby on Rails
(RoR), would start off on a Cloud Server. And, we still have the option
of tapping dedicated hardware for clients who have complex capacity,
performance, or compliance concerns,” Josh explains.

The ease of creating and deleting servers quickly using Cloud Servers
and Cloud Sites is a big benefit for Cramer. To further automate and
streamline the process for their multiple clients, they also leverage
tools, like Capistrano and Chef for post-provisioning and application
configuration tasks. That means they can build sites and applications
better, faster, and cheaper.

“We do some development workstation tasks in the cloud. We also use the
cloud to launch staging servers and integration testing environments and
it’s always been reliable,” Josh shares. Cloud Files addresses their
need to reliably host and serve large assets, like videos and massive
image libraries for ecommerce sites, plus internal storage and backup
needs.

#### To Maintain Business Focus 

Rackspace Hybrid Hosting approach allows web development firms like
Cramer Development to support complex website needs without investing
time and energy into standing up servers for temporary use or chasing
scale to keep up with their clients’ growing needs. The built-in
scalability of the cloud allows them to adapt to variable website
traffic and their clients’ sites deliver the intended experience and
functionality.

Rackspace lets Cramer Development offload system admin and
infrastructure work leaving them free to focus on their core business –
application development. To access the level of support required to keep
multiple websites and applications running around the clock can sap
energy, resources, and profits away from revenue generating activities.
With the suite of hosting services and supporting admin tools at
Rackspace, the Cramer Development team can meet their clients’
application development needs while Rackspace handles their
infrastructure layer.

#### To Reap the Benefits of a Trusted, Single-Provider Solution

Having a single provider solution allows consolidation of their monthly
billing into a single invoice. It also means that they can add or remove
capacity and move a project from development to testing to launch from
MyRackspace, the integrated Control Panel that serves as a portal to
help them manage all of their Rackspace services and a centralized
access point for their geographically dispersed team.

They’re also able to leverage the Rackspace name and reputation for
hosting services as they market themselves to prospective clients and
grow relationships with current clients. The cornerstone of Rackspace
reputation is our commitment to the customer service we have branded as
Fanatical Support; our focus to provide world-class service experience
to our customers. That commitment is based in empowering Rackers with
the skills and tools necessary to deliver world-class service, as well
as giving customers intuitive self-service tools, clear support
documentation, and live training opportunities. “I know who to call, and
there’s someone there around the clock,” says Josh.

### Conclusion

“Having everything with one provider, with great support and quality of
service is good for us,” says Josh of their relationship with Rackspace.
As they grow, the firm has the peace of mind of knowing that Rackspace
can help them handle complex computing needs, save them from costly
hardware and infrastructure-related investments, allow them to maintain
focus on their core, and deliver the security and performance their
clients demand.
