---
permalink: dafiti-mexico-brings-online-fashion-to-a-large-and-growing-market/
audit_date:
title: Dafiti Mexico Brings Online Fashion to a Large and Growing Market
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-08-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-21'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.dafiti.com.br/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/dafiti-mexico-brings-online-fashion-to-a-large-and-growing-market/dafiti.jpeg %}" width="445" height="142" />
</a>


**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Founded in Brazil in 2011, Dafiti is a leading
online fashion store, delivering apparel, shoes, accessories and more,
with fast, free shipping and no-cost returns, with the company expanding
to their second largest market in 2012, Dafiti Mexico.

**CHALLENGES:** Dafiti Mexico needs a secure, stable hosting platform to
keep their online business running smoothly, and the company’s bottom
line hinges on rapid load times - if their site doesn’t load quickly and
perform optimally on both web and mobile platforms, they risk losing
frustrated customers to the competition.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Managed
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/),
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/),
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/rackconnect/),
[Load Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** By hosting with Rackspace, Dafiti Mexico has
maintained the speed, stability and security required to be a leader in
the ecommerce industry, and Rackspace gives Dafiti the ability to easily
scale and adapt as the company grows, tackles new goals, and their
business needs change.

### Latin America’s hottest ecommerce company relies on Rackspace to ensure a secure, stable, and speedy online shopping experience.

Dafiti was founded in Brazil in 2011, backed by the German-based startup
incubator Rocket Internet, and has since established branches in five
other Latin American countries. Dafiti Group currently has operations in
Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Chile, and Colombia, and has received
millions in equity funding from high-powered international investors
like JP Morgan and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan (OTPP). An
innovator in a region of emerging markets with a rapidly growing
consumer class, Dafiti has received accolades for its successful
business model, product offerings, and commitment to customer service.
The company was recognized by CNN Expansion as one of the 10 best
e-businesses of 2013, and voted the top contender in the category of
Entrepreneurship.

Dafiti first began operating in Mexico, their second largest market, in
2012 and quickly captured a huge volume of Mexican consumers to become
one of the country’s leading online fashion stores. They offer a diverse
portfolio of products from apparel, shoes, and accessories to beauty
products, promising free shipping, fast delivery times, and no-cost
returns to shoppers located anywhere in the republic. With its secure,
user-friendly platform and commitment to customer service, Dafiti Mexico
has introduced many Mexican consumers to the benefits of online shopping
and generated a legion of repeat customers.

### Stability, Security, and Fast Load Times

A reliable hosting provider is a must for a digital company like Dafiti,
which depends on a stable, secure, and high-speed website to keep
business running smoothly. Dafiti Mexico has been hosting with Rackspace
from the very beginning, and according to CTO Japhet Atristain, they’ve
been very happy with their choice of Rackspace as a service provider.
“Hosting with Rackspace has been a wonderful experience for us,”
Atristain raves, citing the stability Rackspace has delivered during
their three years of service. “We haven’t had even one outage.” As
Atristain explains, one of the company’s main metrics for measuring
performance is load times.

Dafiti knows that slow load times translate to frustrated customers,
abandoned transactions, and lost revenue. According to Atristain,
although slow sites are still the norm in Mexico, hosting with Rackspace
– and making use of Rackspace load balancers, security protection, and
digital expertise – allows Dafiti Mexico to meet Rocket Internet’s high
standards for performance and to hit the benchmarks shared by all
branches of the Dafiti Group.

### Room to Grow on the Cloud

Dafiti Mexico currently runs its business primarily on four dedicated
servers: two front-end servers to handle all the form and function of
the online store, two back-end servers to handle business operations
like order processing and customer service. More recently, as the
company has grown and seen the need for a more robust server
configuration, they’ve been adding cloud servers as well. They currently
have two cloud servers, on which they run things like their blog and
Wiki applications, and are considering additional cloud servers for
creating a vendor environment and running RabbitMQ.

One reason Dafiti Mexico is happy working with Rackspace is because of
the potential for growth, and the security and flexibility this affords
a company that shows no signs of slowing down. As Co-founder and CEO of
Dafiti Mexico David Geisen explains: “We’ve been with Rackspace for
almost three years. We’re really happy with Rackspace as a provider, and
we think that Rackspace can support the continued growth that our
company expects to achieve.”

### Two Companies Committed to Customer Service

When asked about his experience with Rackspace, CTO Atristain focuses on
the quality of the technical support he’s received and says it’s clear
that customer service is what sets Rackspace apart from the competition.
“I’ve had a really good experience with Rackspace and with their
***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***. I think the big story here with
Rackspace is the customer service.” It’s perhaps unsurprising that Atristain
would notice and highlight this particular feature given that it aligns with
one of Dafiti’s own primary business goals. Indeed, according to Geisen,
Dafiti Mexico rigorously trains its customer service team and shares a
company-wide commitment to provide excellent customer service to all
Dafiti shoppers. “We have fantastic support too,” he says.
