---
permalink: ddp-yoga-delivers-a-consistently-reliable-customer-experience/
audit_date:
title: DDP Yoga Delivers a Consistently Reliable Customer Experience
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-11-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://ddpyoga.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/ddp-yoga-delivers-a-consistently-reliable-customer-experience/DDPYogalogo.png %}" width="400" height="75" />
</a>


**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS**: DDP Yoga is a fitness and lifestyle program, retail
line, and online services focused around the health benefits of yoga.

**CHALLENGES**: Serving more than 56,000 unique visitors without delays,
and maintaining a cutting-edge, reliable platform that supports a steady
increase of traffic and customers.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION**: [Rackspace Managed
Cloud](https://www.rackspace.com/managed-cloud/): [Cloud
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/), [Cloud
Files](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files), [Cloud Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing) and [Cloud
Monitoring](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/monitoring/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME**: Deliver a consistently reliable, always on,
responsive customer experience for DDP Yoga customers, allowing DDP Yoga
to lower costs and focus on their application to increase revenue.

### Scaling faster growth, and healthier lives, in the Rackspace Managed Cloud.

Founded in 1998 by former three times WCW World Heavyweight Champion
Diamond Dallas Page, DDP Yoga provides a convenient, holistic fitness
and lifestyle program and online community centered on the benefits of
yoga. The company markets a unique fitness system combining yoga with
other exercise and wellness practices. In a normally female-dominated
activity, DPP Yoga has also found success attracting male customers.

As DDP Yoga has grown, its technical staff experienced higher volumes of
data and traffic load. The company also experienced seasonal traffic
spikes associated with fitness, such as post-holiday activity increases.

“When we started, we went from a shared server environment to dedicated
with that hosting provider,” explains Steve Yu, DDP Yoga President.
“When we began growing, the provider started having outages. With
increasing demand and a limited budget, downtime for us of even a few
hours could mean thousands of dollars lost. We resolved to find a more
reliable hosting company.”

### Environment to Scale Quickly

DDP Yoga needed be able to scale its environment quickly. “We were
curious about load balancing, but didn’t know how much bandwidth or
backend power we’d need” said Yu. “This immediate flexibility was one of
the key reasons why we went with Rackspace Managed Cloud, in case we had
to scale for a big event.”

That ‘big event’ arrived in the form of DDP Yoga’s recent participation
in a nationwide broadcast TV series, Shark Tank. With intense traffic
spikes anticipated during and after the show’s air schedule, DDP Yoga
relied on database traffic management solution ScaleArc, recommended by
Rackspace, to manage voluminous database traffic and accelerate heavy
queries resulting from the nationwide TV exposure.

After several weeks of preparation, DDP Yoga had a cohesive Rackspace
Managed Cloud environment consisting of 25x8GB web servers and 2x30GB
database servers, along with the ScaleArc database traffic management
solution.

“During all four airings of DDP’s Shark Tank episode, a conference
bridge was set up for the entire team in the event of an issue,”
explains Magda Esparza, Rackspace Cloud Advisor. “Due to an unforeseen
bottleneck in their environment, the DDP Yoga site did experience a
small amount of downtime during one of the events. Our planned approach
and swift troubleshooting helped ensure success for DDP Yoga’s
involvement in the program, which produced record-breaking sales.”

“Having the ScaleArc team in place turned out to be great as we moved
into the Shark Tank rollout,” said Yu. “Of course, at the start I
wondered how it was going to work bringing on this other partner. Would
it work with the whole team? Am I going to now have to manage this other
team and what they’re doing? What ended up happening was that Rackspace
managed the whole team. It didn’t feel like we were working with two
different companies. It was seamless.”

### The Rackspace Managed Cloud Delivers

Using a Rackspace architecture consisting of five database servers
connected to multiple cloud web servers, DDP Yoga is taking advantage of
the Rackspace Managed Cloud to deliver consistently, globally and with
quick response times, to a customer base that’s growing at a rapid clip.
And, Rackspace is helping DDP Yoga deliver maximum availability of all
its online offerings.

“In load testing for Shark Tank, we did see quite a significant
performance increase,” said Yu. “But the number one reason why we want
to work with Rackspace is Fanatical Support®. Rackspace takes ownership
of the success of our company. This high level of customer service
solves a lot of business issues for us.”

“We have a lot of confidence in Rackspace’s technical team to have the
knowledge and the troubleshooting ability,” said Yu. “Now that we have
Managed Cloud, I can look at a support ticket and just know what’s going
on as opposed to okay, I have to fix it. I can focus on strategy and not
worry so much about whether or not the site is up and running.”
