---
permalink: digital-post-australia-powers-online-postal-system-via-managed-virtualization/
audit_date:
title: Digital Post Australia Powers Online Postal System via Managed Virtualization
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-16'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="https://digitalpost.com.au/html/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/digital-post-australia-powers-online-postal-system-via-managed-virtualization/digitalpostaustralialogo.jpeg %}" width="360" height="102" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Digital Post Australia is an enabler of digital
communications, connecting Australian businesses with their customers
through a secure, trusted service that provides consumers with a free
and convenient delivery channel and secure document archive.

**CHALLENGES:** The company was looking to go-to-market quickly with a
secure, stable and scalable online environment which could be monitored
and managed by their infrastructure hosting partner of choice.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Managed
Virtualisation](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-virtualization/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Digital Post has experienced virtually 100%
service uptime since going live with Rackspace.

### Experiencing virtually 100% service uptime since going live with Rackspace.

As the market leader in providing Australia’s first online postal system
since 2012, Digital Post Australia is creating an entirely new model of
mail delivery that offers cost savings to businesses and the best
possible experience to consumers. The company is a joint venture between
one of Australia’s largest communication companies, Computershare, and
Zumbox, an innovator in digital postal mail platforms and services based
in the United States.

“Digital Post Australia partners with companies that are already
producing and preparing their physical mail,” explains Simon Hughes,
General Manager at Digital Post Australia. “However, instead of those
important documents arriving in your physical mailbox, we deliver a
digital version to your digital postbox. Many companies from all over
Australia rely on Digital Post for the timely and secure delivery of
important customer and shareholder documents to anywhere around the
world with access to our service 24/7.”

### Getting To Market Quickly

Digital Post realised during their startup phase that, in order to get
to market quickly and achieve the desired levels of infrastructure
flexibility and scalability, the company would need to engage a hosting
partner. “With our focus being on optimisation of our core application
technology platform, we required a reliable and trusted partner to help
take care of our infrastructure requirements,” says Hughes. “We needed
to design and implement a secure, stable, hosted environment in a very
short timeframe without compromising quality.”

Due to the sensitive nature of the information that Digital Post
handles, the focus was finding a hosting provider that could meet their
minimum requirements, particularly in relation to information security,
including that all data must be hosted in Australia, and associated
certifications. Digital Post evaluated each hosting candidate on a
number of key factors including the ability to meet unique technical
requirements, familiarity with critical technologies, local presence and
operational support, and the ability to meet Digital Post’s tight
timeframes.

“Rackspace was impressively responsive to our needs and proposed a
suitable and well-designed solution in a very short space of time,”
explains Hughes. “Their engineers and technical team demonstrated a
solid knowledge of key technologies that are critical to our
architecture and the sales team came to the table with competitive
commercial arrangements. The service levels offered by Rackspace set a
very high benchmark and, although we were already aware of the company’s
reputation, we received several positive recommendations for Rackspace.”

Although Digital Post had a pre-defined architecture, Rackspace
consulted and provided the startup with constructive and informed design
recommendations. “The final solution design was significantly influenced
by the knowledge of Rackspace’s engineers and was completed in an
impressively short period of time,” says Hughes. “Deployment of the
solution was just as impressive with the solution being delivered on
time and to a very high standard. We now use Rackspace for fully hosted
infrastructure and support.”

### No Critical Infrastructure Worries

Since building the infrastructure for Digital Post on Rackspace, Hughes
goes on to say, “we have experienced virtually 100% service uptime since
going live with Rackspace. Our technical team is able to spend far less
time monitoring and managing critical infrastructure now and service
reports are proactive and regular meaning that we rarely even need to
reach out to ask for information.”

Freeing up valuable time by allowing Rackspace to manage, monitor and
report on the infrastructure, Digital Post’s team of technologists are
able to focus on the heart of the online postal system. “Our technology
teams are able to focus their energies to other areas of the business
knowing that our critical infrastructure is in good hands,” says Hughes.
“The amount of time spent managing infrastructure components is minimal
and this is underpinned by confidence in the systems, monitoring and
reporting provided by Rackspace.”

As the Digital Post environment grows and becomes more complex, the
company envisions utilising thea technical expertise of Rackspace’s
engineers and architects to, “assist in the efficient and practical
design of even more scalable and flexible solutions,” concludes Hughes.
“We are always keen to hear about developments in Rackspace’s service
offering as our own business and technology requirements are constantly
evolving. And, also see opportunities to augment our own technical
security capabilities by complementing these with Rackspace’s security
offerings in the future.”
