---
permalink: digitalfilm-tree-looking-to-shape-the-future-of-the-entertainment-industry/
audit_date:
title: DigitalFilm Tree Looking to Shape The Future of the Entertainment Industry
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-17'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.digitalfilmtree.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/digitalfilm-tree-looking-to-shape-the-future-of-the-entertainment-industry/DigitalFilmTreelogo.jpg %}" width="351" height="81" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS**: DigitalFilm Tree is a full-service,
post-production facility for television and film, bringing cloud-based
workflows to the entertainment industry.

**CHALLENGES**: DigitalFilm Tree needed scalable cloud solutions to
manage data storage and keep bandwidth costs under control.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION**: [Rackspace Public
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/), [Rackspace Performance Cloud
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/),
[OpenStack<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/openstack/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME**: DigitalFilm Tree can stream more video to more
users in less time than was possible with previous generation Cloud
Servers, providing them a sustainable and profitable business model
based on dynamic scaling, enabling them to abandon the frantic search
for cheaper bandwidth and focus on core business.

### Post-production facility uses Rackspace and OpenStack to stream video, host software, and make shared content more open and flexible.

DigitalFilm Tree is a full-service post-production facility that does
finishing and editorial work for television and film. A major player in
the entertainment industry, their roster of clients includes virtually
all major television networks and Hollywood film studios. The company
provides what they describe as an end-to-end service: they are involved
from the production phase when the material is shot, through the
creative editorial process, and into the finishing process where the
content is prepared for theatrical and broadcast delivery.

At each stage, DigitalFilm Tree’s operations require a constant flow of
video review and approval, often involving exchanges between filmmakers
in far-flung locations and their collaborators back at the studio. The
more quickly and efficiently video can be shared, the better for the
creative process, and for the bottom lines of everyone involved.
Facilitating such sharing is just one of the many reasons that
DigitalFilm Tree increasingly relies on Rackspace and OpenStack. The
company, which also provides IT and consulting services, is committed to
a cloud-based workflow and convinced that Hollywood, with its tight
timelines and demanding bandwidth requirements, must embrace the cloud
to remain viable in the future.

### Reducing the Cost of Data Storage and Bandwidth

As a thriving post-production facility, DigitalFilm Tree may, at any
time, be working on any number of TV series or feature films, each of
which produces a steady stream of content needing review and approval.
Given that a single television show generates an average of 36 terabytes
of content in a day of filming, it’s easy to understand why data
management has been a key issue for the company as it has grown. As
early as five years ago, DigitalFilm Tree turned to the cloud as a way
to avoid the constantly increasing need for bandwidth and local storage,
which was becoming prohibitively expensive.

They began focusing on scalable cloud solutions or “storage on demand”
that could be increased and decreased over the course of a production,
which reduced their need for bandwidth and helped them focus on their
core business. Today, the company partners with Rackspace and OpenStack
to power a cloud workflow that relies on a mix of private and public
clouds for storage, sharing, and hosting proprietary software like
Critique, their video review application, which they host on a private
OpenStack for internal use, and on Rackspace as a public cloud offering.

Guillame Aubuchon, CTO of DigitalFilm Tree, says that Rackspace and
OpenStack have not only facilitated the creative process but also helped
DigitalFilm Tree save money, in part by using available bandwidth in a
more efficient way. With the cloud workflow, camera content is uploaded
to the cloud and then anyone who needs to can access it. The content
needs to be moved only once, Aubuchon points out, and “every part of the
process subsequently can happen as part of a virtual desktop interface
to that content.”

According to Aubuchon, OpenStack has supplanted the need for costly
infrastructure solutions. Rapidly spinning up fiber on location, for
example, to meet bandwidth demands, affords DigitalFilm Tree the
possibility of “dynamic scaling” that is highly cost-effective. He says
they’ve also derived savings from Rackspace’s Performance Cloud Servers
which, by his estimates, “perform up to ten times better than previous
generation Cloud Servers,” allowing them to stream video to far more
users in less time and at lower cost. “Rackspace Performance Cloud
Servers are delivering us not only a performance advantage but also a
cost advantage,” says Aubuchon. “We’ve been able to achieve a price per
gigabyte cost that we haven’t seen before.”

### The OpenStack Platform for Hollywood

Utterly committed to its current cloud-based business model, DigitalFilm
Tree now aims to bring that model to its clients and to increase the
OpenStack network, so the platform can be used to build a standard for
sharing and collaboration in the media and entertainment industry. They
have become evangelists for OpenStack workflows within the industry,
providing IT and consulting services to help studios set up their own
instances of OpenStack, getting started with private clouds that can
then be hybridized to public clouds when the studios are ready to share
content with the outside world.

Aubuchon believes that these efforts are especially crucial for the
Hollywood studios, if they are to remain competitive with cloud-based
content providers like Amazon and Netflix. Studios have been wary of the
cloud, and of open source platforms like OpenStack, due to concerns
about keeping content secure; however DigitalFilm Tree’s efforts and
their own acceptance of OpenStack has helped bring about what Aubuchon
describes as a “regime shift,” with more and more studios embracing the
cloud and the expanded business model made possible by putting more and
more content on the cloud. The studios will always need private clouds,
hosted internally, for content they want to keep within their own walls,
but OpenStack gives them a way to easily migrate that content to a
platform that gives them access to the rest of the world, once they are
ready to share.

Aubuchon believes that OpenStack can help solve one of the entertainment
industry’s principle roadblocks, which is a lack of industry standards
that facilitate easy collaboration and communication. When content is
produced, he explains, it often needs to pass through a number of
different clouds, from the post-production facility, to the
visual-effects vendor, to, eventually, the distributors, like Hulu and
Netflix and Amazon, which are clouds themselves.

According to Aubuchon, everyone involved in this chain has a vested
interest in moving the content from cloud to cloud as quickly and easily
as possible, yet none of the separate clouds are really meant to share
content with each other. “We’re trying to bridge that gap with
OpenStack”, he says. “We realized OpenStack was a way to build a
standard in the industry,” he continues, “where we could all run our own
services and have our applications, but using a unified platform.
OpenStack was definitely the answer we had been looking for.”

### Rackspace as a Partner for the Future

In Aubuchon’s view, Rackspace has been a natural fit to help DigitalFilm
Tree expand its business, and stay at the forefront of the industry. At
present, DigitalFilm Tree relies on Rackspace to host all of its
public-facing software and includes both Rackspace and OpenStack in its
plans for future growth. “Rackspace is not only a key part of our
software model, it’s a key part of our business model,” says Aubuchon.
He praises the company for fostering an open and agile experience, for
understanding the needs of the entertainment industry, and for helping
DigitalFilm Tree pursue its larger goal to promote industry standards
based on OpenStack.

Aubuchon is proud that DigitalFilm Tree is at the forefront of the
industry, promoting the cloud-based solutions that he believes are
crucial to the future of Hollywood as we know it, and he’s happy to
share the credit with Rackspace and OpenStack. “We like to live in the
future,” he says, and “Rackspace has really allowed us to live in that
future and live in a place that feels like it’s the shift that our
industry needs to change, and it’s really the future of our industry as
a whole.”
