---
permalink: dominos-uk-embraces-hybrid-portfolio/
audit_date:
title: Domino's UK Embraces Hybrid Portfolio
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-09-17'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.dominos.co.uk/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/dominos-uk-embraces-hybrid-portfolio/dominos.png %}" width="232" height="200" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Domino’s is the UK’s leading pizza company.

**CHALLENGES:** Domino’s needed a hosting solution that offered the
security of dedicated servers and the flexibility of cloud.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Hybrid
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Rackspace allows Domino’s to transition
appropriate workloads to the [public
cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/public) gradually while
maintaining a dedicated footprint.

### Rackspace Enables Intelligent Cloud Adoption

With more than 800 stores, Domino’s is the UK’s leading pizza company.
Thanks to innovative web and mobile apps, online and mobile sales
account for more than 50 percent of Domino’s overall revenue, which has
itself increased 34 percent since last year.

To accommodate this and future growth, Domino’s UK entrusts almost all
of their infrastructure to a [hybrid cloud
solution](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) that allows them to be
highly available, maintain performance during peak loads, and save money
in the process. This solution also enables Domino’s to migrate
appropriate workloads to the cloud gradually, with lower risk, while
retaining the performance and security benefits of dedicated servers.

### Focusing IT on Adding Business Value

When Colin Rees began as Domino’s IT director, the company hosted its
infrastructure on-premise. He immediately saw an opportunity to work
with a specialist that could help the company focus on its core
business. “Over 50 percent of our business comes from online or mobile
channels, so it is absolutely critical to us,” says Rees. “If that
service fails, we upset lots of customers and lose a lot of business. I
was very aware that to maintain our current growth trajectory, and to
keep improving our customer experience, we needed a reliable hosting
solution. One my first actions as IT director was to outsource our data
center.”

Rees moved all of Domino’s UK infrastructure except print servers to
Rackspace. “There were so many companies that run data centers much
better than we ever could, and it freed up all of that resource and
effort to do things that better benefit the company,” Rees explains.
“There were a lot of really good hosting companies out there, but we
felt the culture of Rackspace was an energetic, fast-moving,
service-focused match to our own culture.”

Rackspace also offered a diverse portfolio that meant Domino’s could
build a dedicated footprint while also having the option of expanding
into cloud in the future. Rees says, “We wanted the very best of both
worlds. Our hosting solution had to offer the exceptionally high level
of security and configurability that only comes with dedicated managed
hosting, but also provide the instant scalability and economy of cloud
hosting when we need it. The answer was found with Rackspace Hybrid
Cloud, a solution that ticks all these options and more.”

Now, Rees says, “We run pretty much everything that supports the
business at Rackspace: our [commerce
platforms](http://www.rackspace.com/ecommerce-hosting/), our [mobile
platforms](http://www.rackspace.com/mobile-cloud/), all of our [dev/test
platforms](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions/testdev/), all of
the systems that support DPG as a corporation, our finance systems, et
cetera. The only thing we really host locally is print servers.”

### Gradual Migration

Rackspace allows Domino’s to transition appropriate workloads to the
public cloud gradually while maintaining a dedicated footprint. “For us,
the cloud is a journey,” Rees says. “Cloud is an important technology,
but we wanted to build our experience and understanding of it in a
low-risk way. At the moment we are running all of our dev/ test services
on the cloud, and we’ve been doing that for about a year now. The logic
behind it is to build our knowledge and confidence in the cloud platform
before we migrate our production services over to that platform, which
we are just starting to work on now.”

“We’re going to be experimenting later this year with moving our
commerce platform more and more onto the cloud.” Eventually, Rees says,
“I can’t see why we cannot move as much as 80 percent of our total
workloads to the public cloud, including business-critical apps and
mobile workloads. If we can take advantage of cloud infrastructure and
scaling, I can see a) a lot more flexibility, and b) good cost
reduction.”

Rees says, “The real benefits will start to accrue when we begin to take
full advantage of the on-demand scalability of the Rackspace Cloud for
developing new smartphone or tablet applications, or scaling up by
adding new virtual servers to handle the increased traffic demands of a
huge digital marketing campaign.“

### An Ongoing Journey

The transition might be gradual, but this conservative approach doesn’t
preclude an exciting vision for the future. “I think cloud helps drive
innovation, it helps remove some of the little barriers that slow IT
down in organizations. The options are endless,” Rees says, “and the
result is that our online business offering can grow effortlessly to
meet the needs of an increasingly tech-savvy and pizza-hungry audience.”

Domino’s relies on Rackspace to provide the guidance they need to
explore those possibilities. “I’m very happy with the support we get,
particularly from our account manager and all the tech leads,” says
Domino’s infrastructure manager Michael Chute. “They spend quite a lot
of time educating us about what products are out there and how we can
use them. They’re very good at making us aware of what’s out there and
how we can best do what we’re doing. I’m quite confident that we can
make more use of cloud and get the support to do it.”
