---
permalink: enterprise-it-saas-playing-in-the-global-devops-space/
audit_date:
title: Enterprise IT SaaS Playing in the Global DevOps Space
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-11-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.plutora.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/enterprise-it-saas-playing-in-the-global-devops-space/Plutoralogo.png %}" width="311" height="46" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:**
Process-based solutions for planning, managing and controlling IT
delivery, DevOps and IT operations.

**CHALLENGES:** Enable customer to scale their software in a cost-
effective manner and maintain consistent, high levels of performance in
a global marketplace.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> **SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Managed Cloud
Servers](https://www.rackspace.com/managed-cloud/), [Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing),
[Mailgun](http://www.rackspace.com/mailgun)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Greater efficiency and focus on application and
product development resulting in exponential revenue growth; improved
innovation in the enterprise IT SaaS space.

### Rackspace solutions facilitate revenues while bolstering infrastructure from behind the scenes.

Founded in 2012, Plutora helps companies bring together enterprise IT
processes and information. The Sydney, Australia-based SaaS provider
helps its clients plan, manage and control complex IT releases and test
environments in a simple and transparent manner.

“Our solution allows enterprises to manage complex releases as well as
manage their inventory of test environments to effectively deliver on
projects and releases,” said Sean Hamawi, Plutora Co-founder and
Director. “We play in the enterprise DevOps space and manage tens of
thousands of test environments for organizations around the world,
spanning Fortune 1,000 to smaller software vendors.”

Plutora applications allow an organization to focus on running their
internal processes, as opposed to having to manage their own on-premise
solution.

“Part of the value of our solution is the flexibility to scale to meet
our customer demands without actually impacting the way the customer
works,” said Hamawi. “Rackspace has been a phenomenal partner because it
allows us to focus on our growth, to focus on revenue-generating
activities as opposed to focusing on infrastructure activities.
Sometimes we say that behind the scenes Rackspace is so good, that we
actually forget that they’re actually there.”

### Solving Global Challenges & Choosing a Partner

When the company began its journey, the co-founders studied how they
would best manage Plutora infrastructure.

“We looked at all the tier one big players, Rackspace being one.
Rackspace at the time was ahead of the game, and what we’re finding to
date is Rackspace is still ahead of the game with a number of key
features that they use, especially around the backups and monitoring.”

The decisive indicator was that Rackspace was going to be a fit for the
global Plutora footprint. “When we first started our business, we were
in development mode and we were predominantly based out of Rackspace
starter servers in the U.S.,” said Hamawi. “As our business has grown
the last 12 to 14 months, we have spun up new data centres using
Rackspace in Sydney and in London, and we operate three different
geographies using Rackspace as our backbone to effectively deliver our
services and solutions.”

### Accelerating Success

Plutora was built to address a number of key enterprise IT problems. To
function at maximum effect, Plutora uses a number of Rackspace key
product offerings, starting with [Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> Managed
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud) services across three different
regions; USA, Sydney and in London. Plutora also uses
[Mailgun](http://www.rackspace.com/mailgun), which at the moment is
growing at least 50%, month on month.

Plutora participated in the [Rackspace Startup
Program](http://rackspacestartups.com/) — committed to helping
entrepreneurs launch the next generation of businesses with our hosting,
Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>, mentorship and more. Hamawi affirms membership has
led the company to new opportunities.

“One of the key benefits and the reason why we joined Rackspace was the
ability to get into the program, and get off and running with
infrastructure we needed immediately,” said Hamawi. “What’s more, out of
blogs that were done through the program, we had a number of leads come
through, customers inquiring, ‘If you’re using Rackspace, we’re
interested to see what you guys are doing, what solutions you have.’ In
fact, one of Australia’s most innovative online digital companies,
contacted us through the program and have subsequently become a
customer.”

### Confidently Delivering a Mission-Critical Application

Plutora has received accolades throughout the world, most notably
Gartner Cool Vender 2014 recognition, for innovation in the DevOps
movement. “Today we are seeing an upcoming trend in DevOps. And what we
want to do is focus on the enterprise DevOps layer, which is really
around communication, planning and collaboration.”

Over the last 12 months, Plutora has experienced phenomenal growth.
Revenue in the privately held company expanded by nearly 600%, and
Plutora has hundreds of millions of releases under management in the
Plutora platform.

According to Hamawi, using Rackspace, Plutora knows its solution will
perform, and its people don’t need to worry about downtime. “Our
customers use our platform seven days a week and practically 24 hours a
day, he said. “Rackspace allows us to confidently deliver our
mission-critical applications seven days a week.”

From day one, Plutora set out to build a SaaS organization focused on
enterprise IT. The value proposition for our customers is enabling them
to procure services quickly and inexpensively.

“Working with our Rackspace teams has been nothing short of phenomenal
and the beauty about working with Rackspace teams is the support, which
is second to none,” Hamawi said. “We have strong relationships with our
counterparts in Sydney, in the U.S., and we’re slowly building up our
relationships with the Rackspace team in the U.K.”
