---
permalink: excentus-fuels-customer-loyalty-with-rackspace/
audit_date:
title: Excentus Fuels Customer Loyalty with Rackspace
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-27'
created_by: Karla Holmes
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.excentus.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/excentus-fuels-customer-loyalty-with-rackspace/excentuslogo.png %}" />
</a>

**Stable, highly available infrastructure, backed by
***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***, frees information management services
provider to focus on its core business.**

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Produce fuel pump controllers, middleware, and
applications required for Fuel Rewards, their nationwide fuel consumer
loyalty program

**CHALLENGE:** Need High Availability with guaranteed performance to
handle massive traffic

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** Geographically redundant environment, [dedicated
servers](https://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/index.php) that can
handle numerous concurrent
transactions,[firewalls](https://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/firewalls.php),
and [managed
storage](https://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/storage/index.php)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Ability to focus on core competencies and make
plans to expand into other retail verticals with no worries of downtime
and processing delays

### Company overview

Headquartered in Dallas, Texas, Excentus Corporation got its start in
1996 developing fuel pump controllers, readers, and associated
middleware to help gasoline retailers process credit, debit, fleet,
gift, and loyalty card transactions. Today, it is a privately held
company with over 150 employees in the U.S. and Canada. Excentus has
leveraged its insight into fuel customer behavior and markets to fill a
new niche – administering fuel-related cross marketing and loyalty
programs. Through these programs, run by Excentus or branded by Excentus
customers, consumers earn reward points through purchases at grocery
stores or other retailers that are redeemable for gasoline discounts.
With its rapidly expanding Fuel RewardsTM program, Excentus' retail
partners are effectively competing and growing market share by saving
their loyal customers over $100 million to-date on their gasoline
purchases. By increasing in-store sales, these programs deliver
considerable value to participating retailers.

Behind the scenes, however, these program applications demand a highly
available and secure technology infrastructure. Customers often redeem
loyalty points immediately after they earn them and Excentus’ systems
have to keep up. That means that data transmission between retailers’
point of sale systems (where customers earn points) and fuel operators
(where customers redeem their points) must be both flawless and real
time. “We need to make discounts available within 60-180 seconds after a
retail sale is complete,” notes Mike Melson, Sr. VP of Technical
Operations at Excentus.

The infrastructure must also have ample capacity to accommodate a high
volume of transactions—over a million and a half per day during the
holiday season.

Excentus meets these objectives through the Rackspace portfolio of
managed hosting solutions.

### Impressed with Rackspace resources

The company’s original decision to outsource its infrastructure was
driven by its corporate business model according to Melson. “Much of our
growth has been organic,” he explains. “We grow by reinvesting revenue.”

Excentus didn’t believe that it made fiscal sense to sink money into a
data center—especially given how important it is for the infrastructure
to be operational 24x7. “It would have added considerable headcount,
particularly since we would need redundancy in each specialization,”
Melson says.

Its first hosting vendor wasn’t Rackspace. “We started with another
hosting provider,” Melson says. It was not a positive experience. “The
resources assigned to us were spread so thin, they could not respond to
us in a timely fashion.” The vendor also didn’t seem interested in where
Excentus was headed strategically.

So Excentus put out an RFP, and Rackspace emerged as the leading
candidate. “Our technology team was very pleased with the resources
Rackspace brought to the table,” Melson says. When Excentus directors
began asking in-depth questions about how Rackspace would set up the
environment, Rackspace brought in Oracle, Linux, Storage Area Network
technology, and network systems specialists to respond to those
questions.

Rackspace also conveyed its interest in learning about Excentus’
business. “They knew that if they understood our business, they would
better understand our technical staff’s concerns,” Melson explains.

### Incredible honeymoon

Convinced that Rackspace was the right choice, Excentus signed a
contract and began developing a migration plan to transition the
Excentus environment to Rackspace. “We had an incredible honeymoon
period,” Melson says as he recalls the early days of his company’s
contract with Rackspace. “When we migrated to the [Rackspace data
centers](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/network/datacenters/), we
had zero downtime in terms of program operation. And my team was
incredibly impressed that the Rackspace guys were willing to be online
with us all night during the cutover.”

Today, Excentus has two environments with Rackspace. The secondary
facility serves as a backup, as well as a staging environment for new or
upgraded applications.

Melson is particularly pleased with the quality of Rackspace support.
“They show us that they are there for us in a number of ways,” he says.
“We get the attention we need, and they even meet with us to do
strategic reviews.”

When Excentus needs technical support, they count on Rackspace to
deliver. “One time we were moving data from one storage array to
another, and the Rackspace technician stayed past his shift change to
make sure the move got done. It’s that personality of ‘[***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>****](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)’
that is part of the [Rackspace culture](http://rackertalent.com/).”

With Rackspace, Excentus has a [hosting
provider](http://www.rackspace.com/) its customers can also trust. “Our
customers have confidence that our systems are highly available and
compliant,” Melson says. “From a credibility perspective, we can
approach a CEO or VP of marketing and tell them, with confidence, that
we can deliver on our promises. Our customers feel safe knowing that
their applications are running on a Tier 1 hosting provider.”
