---
permalink: firefly-digital-glows-for-rackspace/
audit_date:
title: Firefly Digital Glows for Rackspace
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-11-28'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-22'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.fireflydigital.com/site.php">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/firefly-digital-glows-for-rackspace/firefly.png %}" width="200" height="79" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Web application and website development company

**CHALLENGES:** Needed a more stable, reliably managed server
infrastructure than Firefly Digital's local service provider could
offer

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Managed
Operations](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/)
backed by [Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** High availability and reliability for both their
own operations and for their customers' sites.

### Company Overview

Firefly Digital is a Louisiana-based web application and website
development company. Its powerful content management applications enable
customers to manage website content quickly and easily.

The server infrastructure supporting Firefly Digital and its customers
was unstable, yet Firefly Digital had insufficient technical expertise
in-house to track down and fix the problems easily. The Louisiana-based
company had worked with external consultants and even tried hiring a
so-called “Linux guru”, but the costs were high and the results were
mixed. Finally, Firefly Digital contacted Rackspace about providing
comprehensive Managed Operations, and Rackspace responded with a
money-back guarantee to deliver the kind of highly reliable, highly
available infrastructure that Firefly Digital needed to support its
customers. Firefly Digital now supports its customers with greater
reliability, greater availability and less day-to-day stress on its
executives—and, since the day it moved its operations over to Rackspace,
has never looked back with regret.

### Situation

Two years ago, Bill Dalton was not a man who got much sleep. As the vice
president and co-owner of Louisiana-based Firefly Digital, a web
application and website development firm, Dalton was the “go-to guy”
when a customer's website was not working properly. That year, instead
of sleep, Dalton was getting pager alerts. Lots of them.

"We had a ton of problems," recalls Dalton. "We had one client that was
receiving a huge volume of spam and overloading the mail servers, so I
was getting a huge volume of alerts. We had situations where Apache
would suddenly start to die on us, for no reason that we could see."

Dalton's third-party monitoring service—the source of his pager
alerts—enabled him to catch these problems before they affected Firefly
Digital's customers, but just barely. Their customers depend upon the
availability of their servers and the dedicated content management
system that makes Firefly Digital's service offerings distinct among web
application and web hosting service providers. With customers ranging
from the Seattle Sports Commission to the Bahamas Film Festival to
Eurest Services, an extreme catering services company that provides
online grocery ordering for chefs working on remote oil rigs in the
North Sea, Firefly Digital had no room for downtime.

But overcoming these problems seemed a huge challenge. Firefly Digital
was running its customers' websites and mail servers on Linux-based
systems colocated in a local Internet service provider's data center,
but the provider offered no hands-on server support. Dalton tried to
overcome the problem by hiring someone billed as a Linux genius, but
that proved to be a fiasco. "I learned that one man's genius is another
man's hack," recalls Dalton, who ultimately had to fire the new hire. "I
had hoped that hiring him would make my life better, but there was my
pager, still going off two to three times each night."

### Solution

One of Firefly Digital's project managers walked into Dalton's office
with a postcard from Rackspace shortly after the company had let go of
its Linux genius. "Bill," he said, “why don't you just call Rackspace?
What can you lose?" Dalton was skeptical. He had worked with hosting
companies with managed server solutions before, and his memories were
not positive. The managed hosting company he used to deal with was a
large, national company, and his was a small company. Most of the time,
he felt as though his concerns and calls were just lost in the noise.

But Dalton's business partner joined a chorus of voices telling him to
contact Rackspace, so he fired up his browser and surfed over to the
Rackspace website. The memory still amuses him.

"I pulled up the Rackspace site and up popped that 'Live Chat' window,"
Dalton chuckles. "I thought, what have I got to lose? So I started
having a chat right then and there."

What Dalton found quickly changed his mind about Managed Operation as a
solution to Firefly Digital's challenges.

"Within a few minutes, I was talking to the proposal team," says Dalton,
"and they were extremely professional, quickly moving from 'stop
worrying' to 'let's talk about solutions.' I threw every concern I had
at these guys, and they had answers. They were great."

What was immediately clear to Dalton was that the professionals at
Rackspace knew exactly how to deal with the kinds of issues that were
waking him up at night. Rackspace could provide the hardware, the
services and the Fanatical Support that Firefly Digital needed to keep
its customers up and running around the clock.

"The proposal they've put together addresses every concern I raised;
they've even increased the power of certain servers to ensure my ability
to meet my clients' needs. And, they're offering all this for just a
little more than I'm already paying for a service that's keeping me up
at night. If what Rackspace was proposing to do was only 70% as good as
it sounded, it would still be a great improvement.

"And do you know what?" Dalton continues. "It wasn't 70% as good—it was
120% as good."

### Benefits

What Firefly Digital needed—and what Rackspace delivered—was a set of
robust servers and a set of predictable, reliable Managed Operations to
keep them running optimally. Rackspace Fanatical Support proved to be a
key component of that solution.

Today, Firefly Digital runs its business on three Linux-based servers in
a Rackspace data center. One server supports customer websites; a second
provides support for customer mail services; a third server is dedicated
to a single Firefly Digital customer. The Rackspace network is designed
so that Firefly Digital’s servers experience network latency. The
instant that Rackspace's network monitors detect a problem with one
carrier, the self-healing network tools automatically reroute packets to
one of several other carriers. "Everything Rackspace has put in place to
support us has been a 100% first-rate, no-compromise solution," says
Dalton, "and the support has been fantastic. If we put in a trouble
ticket, Rackspace is back to us with answers within 15 minutes. I was
expecting it to take hours, if not days. After the first month, it
became a game in our office to turn in tickets at weird hours—just to
see how quickly Rackspace would respond. I think one of our guys
actually stayed up till 2 a.m. one Sunday morning just to send in a
ticket. Even then, Rackspace was back to us within 15 minutes!"

While Dalton will be the first to admit that he sounds as though he is
gushing when he talks about Rackspace, his enthusiasm has a keen
business edge to it, too. "The ticketing system that Rackspace has is
fantastic," he says. "It's been an inspiration to us, so we've decided
to implement a very similar kind of system to support our own customers.
We've always considered ourselves to be strong on service, but Rackspace
has set a whole new standard. Rackspace is showing us ways to give our
customers better service. They're inspiring us."

For Firefly Digital, Rackspace has eliminated the uncertainty that had
bedeviled their old service delivery network. The servers run reliably
and the customers remain happy, loyal and enthusiastic about the service
and support that Firefly Digital provides. And Bill Dalton gets a good
night's sleep.

"I can't even begin to say how great Rackspace has been," says Dalton.
"Rackspace changed my life. My blood pressure is lower, I eat healthier,
the sun rises earlier and the spring is warmer.”
