---
permalink: fundapps-delivers-compliance-software-with-rackspace-hybrid-cloud/
audit_date:
title: FundApps Delivers Compliance Software with Rackspace Hybrid Cloud
type: case_study
created_date: '2013-07-31'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-23'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.fundapps.co/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/fundapps-delivers-compliance-software-with-rackspace-hybrid-cloud/fundappslogo.png %}" width="299" height="109" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** FundApps offers a web-based service that allows
fund managers to keep their portfolios in compliance with international
regulations.

**CHALLENGES:** FundApps’ blue-chip customers prioritize security and
are wary of new technologies.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Cloud
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/),
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/),
[Managed
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** FundApps meets high security standards while
easily onboarding new clients.

Based in London, FundApps offers a web-based service that allows fund
managers to keep their portfolios in compliance with constantly evolving
international regulations. As a startup in a segment dominated by
on-premise solutions, FundApps must deliver continuous updates and
utility pricing with the performance and reliability of enterprise-class
software. Connecting cloud and dedicated servers in the [Rackspace
Hybrid Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) allows FundApps to
achieve this, resulting in a lightweight SaaS offering that meets the
both the needs of a growing startup and the security standards of
blue-chip clientele.

### Choosing Rackspace

FundApps knew they would outsource their infrastructure from the
beginning. “Banks should do banking, software companies should build
software, and hosting companies should host,” says FundApps CEO Andrew
White. “Everybody has a core competency, and they should stick to it.”

“Before we had our first client, we knew that we needed to have a very
secure and robust offering, so we chose Rackspace straight away,” he
says. “We had the contract in place before the first client signed, so
that when that happened, we were ready to get started very quickly.”

FundApps CTO James Crowley believes that choosing Rackspace has given
them an edge in winning customer trust. “We’re a software house and we
do software well,” he says. “We’re not networking experts, we’re not
physical security experts or hardware experts. We’d much rather have
someone that’s an industry leader doing that for us, and I think that
gives our clients more confidence in our solution as well.”

“Our clients are blue-chip fund managers and hedge funds, so the
Rackspace name and certifications are very important for our clients,”
White says. “Our customers want reassurance that Rackspace knows what
they’re doing and are doing it well. For some customers that includes
drilling into the details of how the data centers are set up, our
incident response procedures, et cetera. Rackspace is great at helping
us deal with those kind of questions.”

### A Hybrid Solution for a Competitive Edge

Though FundApps is the only web-based startup in the compliance space,
the field is crowded. White says, “We have a lot of competitors, but
they’re the traditional dinosaurs of the industry — they’re heavy,
monolithic architectures that take ages to install and configure. It’s a
very new space to actually bring the old-school technology onto a web
platform.”

Crowley says, “Working in the finance sector, security is always going
to be a key point we are going to be grilled on. We wanted to have the
best possible solution out there. At the same time, as a web-based
service and as a startup wanting to grow, we needed the flexibility to
be able to bring on new customers and therefore bring on new server
capacity quickly.”

“We decided to go with a hybrid solution with
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/)
because it offered the best of both worlds: you’ve got dedicated servers
for your customer data, but then you’ve also got that flexibility to
spin up extra cloud instances,” he says. “That works quite well for us,
and customers like it from a due diligence point of view as well.”

[Rackspace Hybrid Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) allows
FundApps to leverage the flexibility of cloud without losing the trust
of customers accustomed to dedicated environments. “Some of our
customers are wary of cloud, which they see as a shiny new technology,”
says Crowley. “In the long term we see everything moving to cloud, but
in the short term, as a startup with customers with very specific
requirements, we’re always going to be pragmatic. We see the hybrid
model as a stepping stone to full cloud when our customers’ attitudes
evolve.”

FundApps will be able to move more workloads to cloud as customers
become more comfortable with it, but for now, a hybrid architecture
gives their customers peace of mind. “We essentially have a
straightforward, three-tiered architecture with logical separation
between them to give us the security that we need,” he says. “We have a
cloud tier of web servers that serve our web application, we have a
dedicated database tier that stores the customer data, and then we have
another set of servers that execute rules against our database. When we
get a new portfolio from a customer, the relevant rules are applied and
monitored, the results of which end up in the web front end.”

### Looking Toward the Future

FundApps sees large potential for future growth in shifting customer
attitudes. Crowley says, “We’re finding increasingly that the people
we’re speaking to are realizing not only the cost benefit of our
offering, but also the advantage of having these constantly changing
rules on their system the next day, as opposed to waiting six months or
a year for the software release cycle. We think the industry’s going to
realize that, and we’re hoping to grow and take advantage of that as we
go.”

“We’re already getting some great customers on board,” he says, “and
we’re just going to keep improving the product and improving the
platform and bit by bit. Over time, we will distance ourselves from our
competitors in compliance space who are still very much stuck in the
old-model world.”
