---
permalink: how-shoplocal-handles-huge-holiday-traffic-spikes/
audit_date:
title: How ShopLocal Handles Huge Holiday Traffic Spikes
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-11-29'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-23'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.shoplocal.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/how-shoplocal-handles-huge-holiday-traffic-spikes/shoplocal_logo.jpg %}" width="222" height="83" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:**
ShopLocal<sup>&trade;</sup> is a leader in multi-channel shopping services offering
both online and in-store sales, deals and promotions.

**CHALLENGES:** Managing the spike in ShopLocal's web visitors during
the holiday season to ensure the availability and performance of its
sites during peak periods.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/)
backed by [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** High availability during seasonal spikes backed by
solid technical expertise for the hundreds of sites ShopLocal moved to
Rackspace.

### Company Overview

In 1999, ShopLocal, originally known as SalesHound.com, began supporting
nationwide and local retailers by providing branded, online versions of
the circular advertising supplements placed in local newspapers. As
ShopLocal became a leader in multi-channel shopping services, the
popularity of its SmartCircular<sup>&trade;</sup> product spread like wildfire
throughout the retail and advertising communities. Not surprisingly, as
retail shopping activity increases around the Thanksgiving and Christmas
holidays, so does online activity at the retailers' SmartCircular sites.
ShopLocal and Rackspace partnered to proactively address the challenges
of handling huge spikes in website traffic that occur during the
end-of-year holiday shopping season. The company's great success is due,
in large part, to carefully planning and implementing a technical
architecture that is both scalable and fault-tolerant.

The partnership began in 2003 when Rackspace provided supplemental
support to help CrossMedia Services (later to be renamed ShopLocal)
handle its anticipated surge in online activity during the holiday
shopping season. ShopLocal officials recognized it found a IT hosting
provider that not only had the technical expertise but also the
flexibility to support ShopLocal's requirements. Consequently, ShopLocal
moved its hundreds of sites over to the IT hosting experts at
Rackspace.

What retailer in the United States closes up during those frenetic
shopping days between Thanksgiving and New Year's? Not a one. So imagine
an online company that supports hundreds of national and local retailers
by providing branded, online versions of their weekly circulars. What
kind of tolerance levels are site owners likely to have for downtime
when millions of shoppers are online and looking for deals during the
country's busiest shopping days? Pretty close to zero. The need for
uninterrupted site availability and unflagging site performance-even in
the face of huge traffic spikes-is ultimately what prompted ShopLocal to
entrust its hundreds of websites to the managed hosting experts at
Rackspace.

### Finding Support for Major Traffic Spikes

ShopLocal assists hundreds of the country's leading retailers and
thousands of local businesses grow their sales using the Internet.

One of the business ventures for which ShopLocal is most well known
involves the online presentation of store circulars. Every week,
ShopLocal loads its Web servers with interactive images of the same
circulars that will be appearing in Sunday newspapers around the
country. If you want to see what Circuit City, Home Depot, Walgreens,
CVS, Sears or any of more than 100 other retailers are offering for sale
this week, you can click on the Weekly Ad link on the retailer's home
page. This may appear to take you to another part of the retailer's site
to view an online version of the retailer's localized circular, but a
close inspection of the URL will indicate that you are actually visiting
a site on a ShopLocal server, hosted at Rackspace. You can browse the
virtual pages, pull up the details about items on sale and see the
address and phone number of the store nearest you.

Just like the brick-and-mortar stores whose circulars it presents,
ShopLocal.com sees a huge spike in visitor traffic between Thanksgiving
and the end of the December holiday season. Indeed, infrastructure
requirements can double quickly and stay that way for four to eight
weeks.

"For about three days-the Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that encompass
the Thanksgiving Holiday-we have seen traffic spikes of 400 percent or
more," says Bill McCarthy, Chief Operating Officer at ShopLocal. "It
dwarfs all the traffic for the rest of the year. It settles down a bit
after that, but the remainder of November and December is very high
compared to the other ten months of the year."

### Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup> Backs a Flexible Infrastructure

Late in 2003, ShopLocal was still working with another hosting provider,
but it engaged Rackspace on a supplemental basis during the end-of-year
shopping season. That relationship did more than help ShopLocal get
through the season; it introduced ShopLocal to the kind of dedication
and technical expertise that comes with Rackspace ***Fanatical Support***.
That experience soon gave way to a series of conversations about how
Rackspace might be able to play a greater role in ensuring the
availability and performance of ShopLocal's sites. Within six months,
ShopLocal had moved its hundreds of websites to servers in the Rackspace
data center and was working closely with Rackspace to plan for the 2004
seasonal spikes.

"We had extensive conversations with Rackspace," says McCarthy, "and we
came away with confidence in their abilities. We knew we were talking to
people who knew how to do the work. We have direct access to the
engineers and specialists, and we have been able to work closely with
them to build a best-of-class solution."

Indeed, that best-of-class solution consists of servers running the
[Microsoft<sup>&reg;</sup> Windows Server
2003](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/public/servers/windows/) operating
system. It also includes [load
balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/loadbalancers/)
that have been specially configured to route ShopLocal's millions of
visitors and distribute them amongst all the servers within a particular
web farm. ShopLocal maintains more than 300 distinct sites that an
individual may come to visit and search for deals. In addition, the
ShopLocal configuration at Rackspace includes dedicated routers,
[managed
firewalls](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/firewalls/),
a multi-terabyte [storage area
network](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/storage/san/)
and [customized monitoring
services](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/reporting/urlmonitoring/).

ShopLocal's infrastructure is subject to swift changes, given the rapid
growth that the company has experienced and the huge spikes in traffic
that it sees during the holiday shopping season.

"Rackspace gave us the level of technical expertise that was necessary
for us to have confidence that our changing needs could be addressed
quickly and with the reliability that is needed to insure that we are up
24x7," adds Birger. "The pricing was very competitive, but even more
valuable to us was the fact that Rackspace was willing to be very
flexible. Two months of every year are very different than the other ten
months, and we need to adjust our configuration during that time. In the
past, we've essentially had to double our infrastructure for a short
period and Rackspace has always been willing to work with us on that."
