---
permalink: hr-softwares-next-generation-finds-footing-in-the-cloud/
audit_date:
title: "HR Software's Next Generation Finds Footing In The Cloud"
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-28'
created_by: Laurel Wamsley
last_modified_date: '2017-03-23'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.bamboohr.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/hr-softwares-next-generation-finds-footing-in-the-cloud/BambooHR.png %}" width="298" height="77" />
</a>

**The Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> open cloud empowers a SaaS IT army of one.**

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** BambooHR is a SaaS company that helps
businesses manage HR records online.

**CHALLENGES:** Still a startup, the company has only one IT employee
and a limited budget, but they need enterprise-level features to compete
with large corporations.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> Cloud
Servers™](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/servers/)
powered by [OpenStack<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.openstack.org/), [Cloud
Files<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/),
[Cloud Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/loadbalancers/),
[Cloud DNS](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/dns/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** The cloud has made it possible for BambooHR to
provide enterprise-level service on a startup budget.

[CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD CASE STUDY.](http://c179631.r31.cf0.rackcdn.com/BambooHR.pdf)

### Company overview

Based in Provo, Utah, BambooHR is a software-as-a-service company that
helps small and medium businesses manage their HR records online. Since
its founding four years ago, the 21-person company has eschewed the
utilitarian layouts of larger HR-management software in favor of an
interface designed to make users smile.

BambooHR’s mission is to streamline company recordkeeping so that HR
professionals can spend more time working with people and less time
drowning in paperwork. Rackspace, in turn, relieves BambooHR “systems
genius” Jeremy Bowers of wrangling hardware and building infrastructure.
By making the most out of Cloud Servers, Cloud Files, and Cloud Load
Balancers, Bowers manages to remain the sole IT pro at Bamboo while
keeping things afloat on a budget.

### From Slicehost to Rackspace

When Rackspace acquired Slicehost, BambooHR’s previous host, Bowers was
skeptical at first. “We loved Slicehost and were very loyal to them,” he
explains. “I was a little worried, at first, because I hadn’t had a
relationship with Rackspace. Then, when they talked about the migration
and came out with pricing and features, I was actually really excited.”

Fast forward a year since they migrated to Rackspace, and Bowers is not
only content with the switch, but also eagerly testing out new Rackspace
products. In addition to the 10 to 15 Cloud Servers BambooHR regularly
runs, he’s been testing three next-generation Cloud Servers and has
found a lot to like. “Right now I’ve got two or three next-generation
servers that I use for testing and backup,” he says. “I really like the
new interface and how fast it is. I’m moving all of our production onto
the next-gen servers.”

### Empowering an I.T. army of one

Bowers is currently BambooHR’s only systems administrator, and Rackspace
helps keep it that way. “We don’t really plan on hiring other IT people
in the short term, so part of my job is figuring out how to remain an
army of one. With Rackspace tools and Cloud Servers, I don’t need to
have a staff,” he says.

In addition to Cloud Servers, Bowers stores hundreds of thousands of
files on Cloud Files. “I’m really excited about the CDN,” he says. “It
allows us to speed up our application by offloading our static files and
images to the Cloud Files CDN.” He also makes use of Cloud Load
Balancers. “Cloud Load Balancers are less expensive than running a Cloud
Server as a load balancer,” he says. “We have external load balancers
that run our HTTP and HTTPS as well as an internal only load balancer
used to handle queuing and messaging.”

Finally, he raves about the new Cloud DNS interface. “It’s super
straightforward and much easier than running my own DNS. I really
appreciate that it’s free–that’s my favorite price! It’s just been rock
solid for us. We haven’t had any issues.”

### Saving money and man-hours

These products combine to free up time Bowers would otherwise have to
spend building infrastructure, which saves his company money and man
hours. “If I’d had to build the infrastructure itself,” he says, “it
would be too costly and time consuming. I don’t know if we could do what
we do.” Because BambooHR will always be cost-conscious, Rackspace’s
pricing has been a huge boon, Bowers says. “For the pricing, I can buy
into all these enterprise-type features with the budget we have.”

If Bowers ever needs more hands on deck, he knows he can rely on
[***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/).
He uses the chat function for quick questions and has been impressed by
the speed with which Rackspace gets things back on track on the rare
occasion a server goes down. “Support’s been very responsive,” he says.
“Fanatical Support means that I can get always an answer—and it’s going
to be the right answer. I’m not going to be passed off to other
departments.”

### Looking ahead

According to Bowers, one of his favorite things about Rackspace is its
[Product Feedback hub](http://feedback.rackspace.com), where customers
can suggest and vote on new features and improvements. “In IT, where
things move a million miles a minute, I see it as my job to keep up with
what’s new,” he says. “Rackspace is constantly improving. I added a few
things I wanted done, and voted for a few others. When improvements have
been made or ideas are addressed, I get an email notification.”

Just a year ago, Bowers was apprehensive about the move to Rackspace.
Now, he says, “I’ve recommended Rackspace to quite a few people.”
