---
permalink: huge-delivers-globally-for-the-world-s-top-companies/
audit_date:
title: "Huge Delivers Globally for the World's Top Companies"
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-09-15'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-23'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.hugeinc.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/huge-delivers-globally-for-the-world-s-top-companies/HugeLogo.png %}" width="294" height="132" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Huge is a digital agency that provides business
strategy, design, marketing and technology services to some of the world’s
largest businesses and best-known brands.

**CHALLENGES:** Huge often has to meet demanding SLAs and provide global
solutions to fulfill the needs of the multinational companies on its
client roster.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION :** [Rackspace Hybrid
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/),
[RackConnect](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/rackconnect),
[Rackspace Critical Application
Services](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise-cloud-solutions/critical-applications/),
[Sitecore](http://www.rackspace.com/wcm/sitecore), [Adobe
CQ](http://www.rackspace.com/wcm/aem/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Huge and Rackspace have collaborated on many
successful projects over the years, and together provide a level of
stability and global service that meet the needs of Huge’s high-profile
clients.

### Huge works with Rackspace to manage innovative global digital products.

Huge is a top-rated digital agency that creates and manages digital
experiences and campaigns for some of the world’s largest companies and
best-known brands. The agency has worked with a variety of clients
including HBO, Google, Audi, Gucci, American Express and the City of New
York. Founded as a digital design boutique in New York in 1999, the
agency’s first project was to redesign the websites of Swedish furniture
giant Ikea. Since then, Huge has enjoyed rapid growth – it was named the
fastest growing ad agency of 2009 by Advertising Age – and has earned
numerous accolades for its innovative and highly effective digital
products, which have helped its clients expand and transform their
online businesses.

Huge currently has six offices in the United States (New York, Los
Angeles, Atlanta, Portland, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C.), as
well as offices in London, Rio de Janeiro, and Singapore, and works for
clients across a wide range of industries. Recent examples of the
agency’s innovative and successful campaigns include the design of HBO
GO® – a project that spanned 3 years and included 8 launches on
different platforms – and the first ever high-profile Snapchat
campaigns, created for Audi in collaboration with The Onion, which
launched during the Big Game this past February to great success. As a
digital agency, Huge takes a 360 approach, which means they cover every
aspect of the digital products they deliver, from initial strategy and
concept creation to visual design, wire- framing and UX, all the way to
development and implementation by the technology team, to quality
assurance. Throughout this process, they regularly partner with
Rackspace to support their chosen technologies and deliver a robust and
stable hosting platform that they can rely on when its time to deliver.

### Delivering Globally with Focus on Client

A high-profile agency like Huge has to choose its partners carefully to
meet the needs of its clients, and in the current competitive landscape,
their decision to work with Rackspace is equal parts emotional and
practical, as Thomas Prommer, Associate Vice President of Technology at
Huge, explains. “We like to work with Rackspace because we know they
won’t let our clients down,” Prommer says, “but it’s also because we
know that Rackspace is a very sophisticated cloud provider with a global
presence, that isn’t limited to the domestic market in North America but
has extended their data centers across Europe as well as Asia Pacific
and Australia. A lot of our clients have highly global distributed
systems that they have to maintain,” he continues. “They need for both
the application installations as well as the content delivery to come
out of a global network, and that’s something that we’re seeing
fulfilled through the Rackspace infrastructure.”

Prommer says that from the beginning of the Huge partnership with
Rackspace it was clear that there was a cultural match between the two
companies, in terms of a shared focus on the needs of their customers.
“At Huge, we’re highly focused on users, and approach every project from
a user perspective. We immediately felt there was a very good match with
the fanatical support that Rackspace brings to the table, with its
strong focus on making customers happy, and on really going above and
beyond with their service offerings and customer support.”

### Huge Uses Hybrid Cloud Offerings to Deliver

Huge uses the Rackspace Cloud to build a variety of products that can
vary widely in terms of scale and complexity: from websites to social
campaigns, to large-scale ecommerce or content-delivery systems. The
agency often partners with Rackspace to deliver highly robust and
elastic systems that can adapt to the performance needs of a given
digital product. Most recently, Huge has been using the hybrid cloud
offering around RackConnect, which they can use to scale infrastructure
when usage surges. Prommer explains that many of Huge’s clients need to
be in an environment that can provide a dedicated server but have
elastic scaling needs, which the Rackspace hybrid cloud fulfills well.

In recent projects, Huge has been using the multi-tiered elastic block
storage to increase the robustness of their scaled applications and
Prommer says that native elastic auto-scaling support has been a
critical advancement for their purposes at Huge. He says the
advancements in those areas have helped the agency leverage the
Rackspace cloud to an even greater extent than they did just a few years
prior. “We have always looked for high levels of robustness when it
comes to data storage, so the addition around multi-tiered elastic block
storage product was something that really gave us greater confidence. It
made us more comfortable to move more customers onto the Rackspace
Cloud.

### Leveraging Rackspace Support For Applications

Another aspect that Huge values in Rackspace as a partner is their
ability to provide critical applications support services for the
technologies they use most frequently. “Because of our partnership with
Rackspace there is critical applications support that we can leverage,
which is something that makes both us and our clients happy,” Prommer
explains. This is possible in part because the Huge technology team and
the Rackspace digital services team have both been investing in a
similar technology product portfolio, particularly around content
management and ecommerce, which Prommer describes as one of the great
synergies between the two companies.

On the content side, for example, Huge builds most frequently on the
Sitecore and Adobe CQ platforms, two products within Rackspace’s core
areas of expertise, while on the ecommerce side there is similar
convergence on the popular ATG and Hybris platforms. Prommer says the
support that the Rackspace digital experts provide can be critical to
help Huge meet their clients’ needs. “When we build and install those
big applications, there’s ongoing maintenance effort behind it and SLAs
that must be met to meet the high criteria and needs of our customers.
Knowing that with Rackspace we already have a solution around
application support that is able to meet some of the SLAs our clients
have for us is highly satisfying, and something that we’ve been
leveraging very happily.”

### Counting on Rackspace From Beginning to End

Huge strives to offer a highly integrated project set-up, where they
work closely with both the product provider as well as the hosting
platform provider from very early on. Prommer says Rackspace has always
facilitated this process and helped them set the right tone from the
start. “We’re always able to get the Rackspace digital team involved
from very early on to make sure we present solutions to our clients that
are highly cohesive, not just around the way we’re going to implement a
product, but the way we’re going to operate and host it on a long-term
basis.

Just as important as the beginning of a project is the final launch
stage. “One thing you really don’t want to be worried about, is making
sure that your hosting application is set, is fully sound and highly
robust.” With Rackspace, Prommer says, this has never been a concern.
“You don’t want to run into a situation where the moment you switch the
flag on a highly scalable e-commerce site or massive viral social
campaign and you end up losing a lot of traffic and a lot of the
traction because you have instability with your hosting setup. So we’re
very happy to have with Rackspace a very competent partner, who in the
past has always been able to deliver on very extensive SLAs, really
making sure that the platforms stay up and running a hundred percent of
the time.”
