---
permalink: hybrid-hosting-powers-big-data-processing-for-corporation-wiki/
audit_date:
title: Hybrid Hosting Powers Big Data Processing for Corporation Wiki
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-06-20'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-23'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.corporationwiki.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/hybrid-hosting-powers-big-data-processing-for-corporation-wiki/corp-wiki.png %}" width="614" height="93" />
</a>

**RackConnect creates an optimal compute environment.**

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Providing insight into the executives and
entities behind a corporation, and promoting corporate transparency by
being a historical archive of corporate data.

**CHALLENGES:** The original single server maintained and managed by
Rackspace would not allow Corporation Wiki to grow into one of the
largest corporate directories on the web.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Windows<sup>&reg;</sup>
Server](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/)& [SQL
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/sites/web-hosting/mysql/) in a
[Hybrid](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) environment powered by
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/),
with [Cloud Load
Balancer](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing/), [Cloud
Monitoring](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/monitoring/) & [Cloud
Files](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files/).

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** RackConnect hybrid network allowed Corporation
Wiki to run their database on a high-capacity and highly available
server cluster, while scaling the web front-end servers through a high
performance, dedicated load balancer, providing the power for their
corporate directory of over 90 million officers and executives.

Corporation Wiki promotes corporate transparency by being a historical
archive of corporate data, creating a valuable resource for people
interested in discovering and understanding connections between
corporations and executives. Corporation Wiki serves over 300 million
page views per month to visitors and search engine web crawlers by
connecting their [dedicated Rackspace
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/) to
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/) with
[RackConnect](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/dedicated_cloud/rackconnect/)
capability, allowing the company to serve its visitors quickly and at
scale.

Mike Prince, Founder of Corporation Wiki, explains how a [Rackspace
Hybrid Hosting solution](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) enables
his company to conquer [big data
processing](http://www.rackspace.com/big-data/) in a timely manner, “We
process large amounts of data from sources all over the country.
Spinning up dozens of cloud servers helps us get through big data
processing jobs in hours instead of weeks.

Rackspace’s ability to manage and connect our dedicated servers to their
demand-based cloud instances is unlike anything else out there.”

Rackspace provided a big data processing solution for Corporation Wiki
that allows the company the flexibility to grow and scale, creating an
optimal compute environment for them. RackConnect rendered that freedom
with a hybrid hosting solution, enabling them to unify their original
managed dedicated server, clustered SQL Servers, coupled with Windows
cloud servers, and topped off with a load balancer.

### Scaling with Rackspace

Over the past few years, Corporation Wiki has grown into one of the
largest corporate directories on the web. They have created a corporate
directory of over 90 million officers and executives and have
successfully mapped and connected these companies and individuals to
each other.

Initially, Corporation Wiki relied on a single server maintained and
managed by Rackspace. “As traffic grew, we added another server in order
to cluster the Microsoft SQL Server database and front-end web services
were moved to the cloud and made to scale by employing a dedicated
Big-IP F5 load balancer in front of the cloud web servers,” says Prince.
“This RackConnect hybrid network allowed us to run their database on a
high-capacity and highly-available server cluster while scaling the web
front-end servers through a high performance, dedicated load balancer.”

Corporation Wiki obtains a majority of its data from public record
sources which are large in nature. “These data stores add up to
terabytes of data,” says Prince. “In order to clean, standardize, and
unify the data in a reasonable amount of time, we break these large jobs
into smaller jobs and run them on dozens of cloud servers. These server
instances are spun up as needed and the import and processing jobs
complete by a factor of 100 times faster. Cloud instances are essential
in the future growth of the data behind corporationwiki.com.”

### Looking into the future

Corporation Wiki is adding new datasets in their effort to create a
comprehensive historical archive of every company that ever existed. In
addition to their Hybrid Hosting solution, Rackspace Cloud Files helps
make this possible by providing a scalable data store for images. “Cloud
Files nearly limitless storage capability and scalable performance make
this much more cost effective than attempting to do this on dedicated
hardware,” says Prince.

Corporation Wiki search will soon be powered by an open source
technology called Elastic Search that provides scalable and distributed
full-text search. “This will allow the website visitors the ability to
search through terabytes of data quickly,” says Prince. “As the data
grows in Corporation Wiki, Elastic Search allows us to maintain search
performance by simply adding new cloud servers to the search cluster in
order to serve increasing amounts of data to an increasing number of
visitors.”

“Corporation Wiki would not be where it is today were it not for the
ability to help scale, support, and maintain a high performance
infrastructure from Rackspace,” concludes Prince. “This support allows
the team behind Corporation Wiki to focus on the programming required to
bring such a large site online, and continue to grow and scale into the
future.”
