---
permalink: infoplum-is-a-peak-performer-at-2014-global-football-tournament/
audit_date:
title: Infoplum is a Peak Performer at 2014 Global Football Tournament
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2015-02-04'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-23'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.infoplum.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/infoplum-is-a-peak-performer-at-2014-global-football-tournament/InfoPlum-logo.png %}" width="165" height="191" />
</a>

**Customer’s Business:** Global, mobile-driven sports and technology company
based in Melbourne, Australia.

**Challenges:** Scale resources to meet dramatic, peak traffic
delivering a variety of media to a worldwide audience.

**Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> Solution:** [Rackspace Private
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private), [Managed Cloud
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers),
[Load Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing),
[Firewalls](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/firewalls)

**Business Outcome:** Reliable backend support during record- high
demand, and consistent global content delivery with unprecedented
coverage and distribution.

**Aussie sports content innovator, AFP and Rackspace score with global
fans through record high traffic.**

Since its inception in 1990 (as Cadability), infoplum has been a pioneer
in the Australian multimedia market, connecting millions to the
information they need. Using cutting-edge technologies to develop
innovative applications in the sporting world, this mobile-led IT
company is focused on developing and delivering engaging content for
major world sporting events.

“Content is an undeniable asset, but the true differentiation is in how
we present information, through the innovative use of technology,” said
Arun Khanna, Managing Director of infoplum. “We started with a whole
approach and philosophy to capture our own data into a database
structure, from day one.”

“All of our platforms are proprietary. We build our own capture
interfaces, databases, the processing and delivery platforms, web
surfaces and frontend applications.” said Trevor George, infoplum’s
Technical Director.

“Our focus is on continually improving the speed of delivery of that
content and the technologies that support it.”

During the world’s single largest sporting event, the Melbourne-based
company provided a worldwide audience of more than 126 clients in 26
countries with live scores, highlights, news, photos, video, and 3D
footage, with interactive information fully connected to social media
networks and images from Agence France-Presse (AFP).

“We work with clients to provide a range of innovative and engaging
products, whether feeds or applications, always thinking of the user,
their audience, their customers, and how they would react,” said Angelo
Tilocca, infoplum General Manager of Business Development.

### Addressing Unprecedented Traffic With Ease

For the event coverage, infoplum would need a system that could scale,
adjust, and deliver in a large context. As global football fans tracked
the results of the month-long tournament, infoplum, AFP and Rackspace
teamed up to deliver updates relying on Rackspace Cloud Sites to stay up
and running throughout record peak traffic.

The project involved delivery of not only infoplum content but also from
AFP, whose images and editorial had to be precisely processed and
delivered seamlessly. The infoplum application was embedded on 161
websites, served to a worldwide audience in 12 languages. The result,
4.1 billion hits.

“We had 90-plus terabytes of data to deliver, and we needed an
infrastructure partner capable of handling that. Without the facilities
and the commitment from the Rackspace team, it simply wouldn’t have
happened,” said George.

Over this 32-day period, the [Rackspace Cloud
Sites](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/sites) operations team ensured
enough nodes were configured in the high-capacity cluster for the
expected load. Throughout the month, [Rackspace
engineers](http://www.rackspace.com/about/) monitored infoplum’s
environment and made any necessary adjustments to ensure infoplum could
handle demand.

### Phenomenal Result, Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>

This was our biggest project to date, utilizing the support of AFP,
Rackspace and our office in India,” said Tilocca. “Combined, our effort
meant that our clients and their audiences didn’t miss a beat. They
followed the emotion, the passion and the results, and then we saw that
by how many people viewed and engaged with the audience – and how many
people engaged with the product: More than 126 clients, 26 countries, 12
different languages; 4.1 billion hits and 125 million pageviews...
unprecedented coverage and distribution.”

Knowing that Rackspace was on watch gave infoplum leadership peace of
mind throughout the project. “When you’re dealing with sports, there is
no such thing as latency,” said Khanna. “So when we are working around
the clock, covering an event, we need a company that is working
alongside us to manage it. That’s what we expect and that’s what I
believe [***Fanatical Support***](http://www.rackspace.com/about/) is all
about.”

“One of the reasons I like Rackspace is being able to talk to the people
who are doing what needs to be done,” said George. “Their commitment to
our requirements was terrific. I didn’t see the ops team’s actual
operations centre, but they told me they’d printed out the event fixture
of matches and had it plastered up around the walls so they knew when to
expect loads and to prepare in advance for those sorts of things. We
knew we had a team behind us that was truly interested in making our
event a success.”

The event was the reason infoplum went to Rackspace because of its
global context.

“We had never done this before on such a scale, so the risk was
considerable for us, and we felt we needed to go to the best
infrastructure provider that we could imagine,” said George.

“We’re playing in a global market now, and we need to be ready for it,
and that’s why partnerships such as Rackspace and our global partnership
with the AFP, one of the world’s largest and experienced news agencies,
are paramount to our success,” said Tilocca.
