---
permalink: makita-best-in-class-power-tools-meet-best-in-class-support/
audit_date:
title: Makita Best-in-Class Power Tools Meet Best-in-Class Support
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-11-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.makitausa.com/en-us/Modules/Home/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/makita-best-in-class-power-tools-meet-best-in-class-support/makita.png %}" width="424" height="69" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Makita USA sells best-in-class cordless power tools
for construction professionals.

**CHALLENGES:** Makita USA needed an Exchange host that would provide
its employees with ample storage and mobile compatibility while offering
24/7 support.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Hosted
Exchange](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/exchange_hosting/)
gives each of Makita USA’s employees 25GB of storage and is compatible
with a multitude of devices.

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Makita USA saves time, headaches, and money by
using Rackspace Exchange Hosting. Thrilled with the Rackspace
experience, the company is looking into [cloud
storage](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/)
and [server
hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/servers/)
options.

**Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> Hosted Exchange saves Makita USA’s small IT team the
headache of managing email infrastructure.**

Based in La Mirada, California, Makita U.S.A., Inc. (“Makita USA”) sells
best-in- class cordless power tools for construction professionals. The
company maintains over 500 email boxes. Makita USA’s IT team is
small—only half a dozen people—so it’s essential that they be able to
automate and outsource as much as possible. Rackspace Hosted Exchange
saves them the headache of managing email in-house—and saves them money,
too.

### SWITCHING TO RACKSPACE

Makita USA switched to Rackspace Hosted Exchange eight months ago after
their previous provider discontinued its shared hosting services. “We
were kind of out on an island, looking for another provider,” Makita
Vice President of IT Alex Oliva says.

The company briefly considered bringing email back in-house, but Oliva
was not thrilled with the hardware and man hours doing so would require.
“There’s costs involved, infrastructure- and human resources-wise. Who’s
going to be around at 2 in the morning when something actually breaks?”

It was clear that the small team’s time would be better spent on
projects other than managing email infrastructure. “When you do a return
on investment,” Oliva says, “in our case outsourcing would cost us less
than maintaining the hardware and the infrastructure and the people
needed to maintain that system 24 hours a day, seven days a week.” As
for the question about who’d be around at 2 a.m.? The answer, it turned
out, was Rackspace.

### SUPERIOR SUPPORT

For Oliva and his team, finding an email host that offered unflagging,
24/7 support was paramount. Before signing on with Rackspace, Oliva
tested [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) by
calling or signing on to chat at odd hours.

“We needed someplace that had 24/7 support,” Oliva says, “and we
actually tested Rackspace support by calling in, chatting online, making
sure that we were going to get support that was responsive to our needs.
Every single time I called or got online, there was somebody immediately
available. I was contacting Rackspace tech support at midnight, and they
always answered quickly and were very friendly and professional.”

Since signing on, Oliva has found his early tests to be absolutely
representative of the Rackspace commitment to outstanding customer
service. “Since day one, I have been very pleased, and very impressed
with the responsiveness,” he says. “I don’t have to worry about email
going down, or someone not being on top of it when something goes wrong.
I’ve had people from Rackspace call me and ask me if I need help.
Usually you end up calling someone when you need the help, but Rackspace
was proactive in calling me first.”

### We're gonna need a bigger inbox

Besides support, Oliva was looking for a host that offered ample storage
space on the ground level, without the upcharges for expansion they’d
encountered with their previous host. When Makita USA first signed on
with another email provider three years ago, each employee’s inbox
topped out at 100MB. Though larger sizes were available, the cost was
prohibitive when multiplied over 500 inboxes. A year and a half ago,
their previous email provider expanded inbox size, but Oliva says the
upgrade still didn’t cut it.

“In the end, before we left, everybody’s mailboxes were 1GB,” he says,
“but you know what? In this day and age, even that’s not enough.
Everybody uses email as a file cabinet. I was looking for more than
that. I really wanted more than 1GB, and Rackspace was one of the few
that actually offered that without paying a premium for it.”

Rackspace Hosted Exchange accounts come standard with 25GB of storage,
per user, at the most basic level – that’s 256 times the size of Makita
USA’s original inboxes at their previous email provider. If the company
ever needs more storage, they can purchase up to 25GB more per mailbox.

### Compatibility on the go

In addition to ample storage space, mobile compatibility was also a
critical item on Makita’s list of needs. It was essential that their
host not only be able to support mobile devices, but be flexible enough
to accommodate different devices as technology evolves and device trends
shift.

“When we started, there were three dozen Blackberry accounts. Now I
think it’s down to a dozen,” Oliva says. “Most everybody has gotten on
the smartphone bandwagon.”

Thanks to Rackspace, Makita USA employees needn’t worry about whether
they’ll be able to access Exchange through their cool new phones–or
their beat-up old ones, for that matter.

“Rackspace works with anything that can handle email, across the board,”
Oliva says. “It doesn’t matter what the phone is, and it doesn’t matter
if it’s SMTP/POP. I haven’t had a single device that Rackspace hasn’t
been able to interface with.”

### A beautiful friendship beginning

Oliva has been so impressed with his Rackspace experience, he’s decided
to explore other Rackspace offerings, such as cloud storage and server
hosting. “Rackspace has proven itself with support that made me want to
look at those two products, because I know that I’m going to get the
same support in cloud or server hosting that I’ve been getting with the
email,” he says. “We’re best in class, and I consider Rackspace service
to be in the same realm: best in class. That’s important. One can go
anywhere for hosting, but you can’t just go anywhere to get that kind of
service.”
