---
permalink: mapmyfitness-fortifies-growth-saves-cost-without-sacrificing-performance/
audit_date:
title: 'MapMyFitness Fortifies Growth, Saves Cost without Sacrificing Performance'
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-16'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="ttp://www.mapmyfitness.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/mapmyfitness-fortifies-growth-saves-cost-without-sacrificing-performance/MapMyFitnesslogo.jpg %}" width="400" height="110" />
</a>

CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS: MapMyFitness is the leader in Connected Fitness –
building the world’s largest community by providing interactive tools to
make fitness social, simple and rewarding, featuring their flagship
consumer brands – MapMyRun, MapMyRide, and MapMyWalk.

**CHALLENGES:** MapMyFitness was searching for a trusted, managed,
available hosting environment.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/),
[Performance Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/),
[RackConnect](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/rackconnect/),
[ObjectRocket](http://www.rackspace.com/objectrocket/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** The MapMyFitness infrastructure on Rackspace
allows scale intelligently to meet fluctuating seasonal demand and
enormous year-on-year growth.

### Rackspace Cloud Servers scale with popular fitness community’s rapid growth.

Founded in 2005, MapMyFitness is the leader in connected fitness,
offering GPS-based tracking apps that have topped both Android and iOS
stores’ fitness categories since their inception. The company has
steadily grown and now boasts more than 22 million registered users.

To address seasonal demand, scale strategically, and maintain its rapid
growth without compromising on performance or cost, MapMyFitness uses a
variety of Rackspace services — including dedicated and cloud servers,
RackConnect, and MongoDB management services from ObjectRocket.

### Coming To Rackspace

“Our first Rackspace server was in 2007,” says Jesse Demmel, Vice
President, Engineering at MapMyFitness. “We were looking for a trusted
environment and availability was also concern. We did a lot of
comparisons with other solutions and landed on Rackspace as the best
alternative to support the growth that was anticipated for MapMyFitness
in the future.”

“What initially drew us to Rackspace were cost and reliability,” Demmel
says, “as well as the ability to get the benefits and performance of a
dedicated environment without any of the hassle of managing it. When
you’re a very small startup, that’s a super attractive thing.”

“Managing the dedicated footprint has been really valuable, because
those are pieces we don’t have to worry about in house,” Demmel
explains, “As we’ve grown, one thing that has kept us at Rackspace is
the cloud, and the RackConnect to the dedicated side, which gets us
really low latency from cloud to dedicated.”

### Building The Right Infrastructure

Total MapMyFitness’ customer base has at least doubled every year since
it began. In addition to this consistent growth, data volume fluctuates
in a predictable pattern each year.

Demmel explains, “Every year we are growing at a rate of 2.5x in terms
of the data that we have to support. Our traffic is very cyclical:
summer is our peak, and it starts trickling down during the fall until
it gets to holidays and picks back up with New Year’s resolutions. We’re
at least doubling page views and mobile sessions year over year on top
of increased user engagement.”

To address the steady growth and fluctuation, DevOps has been a crucial
component of MapMyFitness’ strategy. “We make heavy use of Puppet to
fully automate our environment, and we practice continuous deployment,
deploying to production daily for the web and as often as we can for
mobile,” Demmel says. “We integrate tightly with development, embedding
DevOps personnel with our development team as they’re building features
to ensure that we can handle the performance and that we’re building out
the infrastructure appropriately at the right time.”

### Performance Cloud Assists With Automation

Demmel sees the addition of Performance Cloud servers as an exciting
step that will further enable the company’s journey toward total
automation.

“We’re getting 5x better performance out of the Performance Cloud than
the previous generation of the cloud,” Demmel says. “We’re really
excited about Performance Cloud, and we think we can finally get there
in terms of our automation desires, so that eventually we won’t have to
touch anything and the system can automatically scale up and down as
needed without us having to do much.”

“As we’ve grown, Rackspace solutions and offerings have grown with us,”
says Demmel. “That’s nice, because we can scale into the cloud for peak
times and go back to baseline dedicated hardware when we aren’t
bursting.”

### ObjectRocket Solution For Database

Despite the company’s success with Performance Cloud, they still find
dedicated to be the best solution for their database needs. “We’ve
wanted to keep the databases on dedicated hardware due to the need for
high IOPS,” Demmel explains. “In recent years, it’s been shown that high
IOPS for databases is possible in the cloud as well, but the cost and
reliability of dedicated hardware is still much better than the cloud.”

While MapMyFitness’ MySQL databases average more than 9,000 queries per
second (spiking at twice that volume), the company looks to Mongo DB as
a solution that will allow it to grow cost effectively.

“What led us to Mongo was that classic relational databases scale
vertically, and aren’t cheap to do right,” Demmel says. “It was a cost
choice. You look at the company and how fast it’s going to grow and
where we’re going to be in five years, ten years, and a vertically
scalable solution like MySQL was pretty cost-prohibitive.”

The company first experimented with Cassandra, but Demmel says, “When we
tried Mongo, it was just much simpler to get up and running, and much
easier to get high performance out of it. It’s a pretty simple database
on the surface to get going, and when you want to fine tune it, it’s got
the ability to really get the performance you need. It’s been very
reliable for us.”

When Rackspace acquired MongoDB-as-a-service company ObjectRocket,
Demmel says the company was initially skeptical, believing they’d built
a substantial amount of Mongo expertise in-house. They decided to give
it a try anyway. “The performance numbers spoke for themselves,” Demmel
says. “Not only was the performance fantastic, but what it would cost us
to do the same with dedicated hardware and maintenance made using the
ObjectRocket solution a no-brainer.”

“Although it can be risky putting your data in the hands of a third
party, Demmel says, ObjectRocket has been excellent at providing
MapMyFitness visibility. “They’re good at training and helping us
understand exactly how the environment’s running, so that we could do it
on our own if we need to later.”

### Looking Toward The Future

MapMyFitness was recently acquired by Under Armour. “It’s a fantastic
partnership. Under Armour will be able to leverage our Connected Fitness
platform to drive innovation in performance apparel, wearable technology
and much more,” Demmel says. “As we dove into the integration process,
it’s very clear that our cultures are closely aligned. It’s just an
absolutely wonderful fit, and we’re really excited about the
opportunity.”

With the acquisition, MapMyFitness is poised for even more explosive
growth, and Rackspace and ObjectRocket will be there to support them
along the way.
