---
permalink: mexican-catalog-sales-company-andrea-brings-its-wears-to-the-web/
audit_date:
title: Mexican Catalog Sales Company Andrea Brings Its Wears to the Web
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-08-15'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://us.andrea.com/estados.aspx?ref=/default.aspx">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/mexican-catalog-sales-company-andrea-brings-its-wears-to-the-web/Andrealogo.gif %}" width="230" height="57" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** With a 40-year history in the shoe business,
Andrea is  a Mexican catalog sales company that markets shoes, lingerie,
clothing and beauty products all across the country through a team of
affiliated salespeople, aiming to harness the power of technology for
its growing business.

**CHALLENGES:** When it came time to digitize their catalog for the web,
Andrea’s IT team realized they needed more bandwidth for their website
to operate as intended: they needed the site, full of high-quality
images, to load quickly and be a reliable business tool for their many
sales affiliates.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Managed Cloud
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-cloud/), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/),
[Firewall](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/firewalls/),
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/rackconnect/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Andrea now has a fully functioning website, with
consistent performance and sufficient bandwidth to run all required
services. Their relationship with Rackspace, and especially the support
received from the Spanish-speaking division, gives Andrea confidence,
not only in their website, but in the future of their business and the
role that technology can play in the years to come.

### Rackspace helps company get its online services up and running via managed cloud.

Andrea is a catalog sales company that markets shoes, lingerie,
clothing, and beauty products all over Mexico. With a 40-year history
and strong national roots, Andrea proudly identifies itself as 100%
Mexican. The company got its start in 1973 with a single high output
shoe workshop in Mexico City. Just three years later, after successfully
advertising their shoes in brochures, the company hit on the idea of
catalog sales and launched the business model that has brought them
steady growth over the past four decades. Over the years Andrea has
added new products, expanded production facilities and opened branch
offices all over the country, with 130 offices currently in operation in
Mexico and, more recently, an additional 14 branches in the US.

The company does not rely on direct sales to consumers but instead on a
vast team of affiliated salespeople all over Mexico, who use Andrea’s
products to start their own small businesses. Andrea refers to these
affiliates, their direct clients, as their “stars” and the company uses
its branch offices to centralize all the different services that
affiliates need to run their businesses with maximum flexibility,
whether they are focused on door-to-door sales, network marketing, or
have a dedicated shop or stall in a local market.

### Going Digital with Rackspace

Andrea first discovered Rackspace when they began to digitize their
catalog for the web and realized that they needed more bandwidth for a
functional website — one that would load images quickly and serve as a
reliable business tool for their sales affiliates. Guillermo Carlin,
Andrea’s IT Infrastructure Production Manager, says they first tried
looking for solutions in Mexico, but found they were all too expensive.
When they heard about Rackspace, they were drawn not only by the
pricing, but the company’s reputation as one of the top service
providers in the US.

Both Carlin and Agapito Servin, Andrea’s IT Infrastructure Coordinator,
say the relationship has been a blessing from the beginning. Andrea now
uses Rackspace Cloud Servers, through RackConnect, and the IT team has
been extremely happy with the results. “We didn’t have a hosting
solution before Rackspace, so they really fulfilled an important need
for us,” says Servin. “The [Rackspace] solution has been excellent,”
he adds. “Everything has worked perfectly. We haven’t had a single
problem up to now, not with bandwidth, or with service, or with the
servers. Everything works.”

### Confident About the Future

Andrea’s leaders say that not only has Rackspace improved their website
and current business, but the relationship has given them confidence for
the future, bolstering their commitment to harness the power of
technology in the years to come. “Here at Andrea we have a promising
future that’s really dependent on technology,” explains Carlin, “and
Rackspace is part of that strategy.”

Software Development Manager Patty Ponce agrees, saying that interacting
with the Rackspace experts and observing the team in action left her
with a very positive impression. “[Rackspace] really inspires
confidence,” she explains. “There’s a whole team working in the
background, and you can see that they have a great deal of knowledge.”
Ponce says the relationship has allowed Andrea to focus on core business
and on expansion: “As a business, we were used to trying to manage everything
in-house, but now we have the confidence that we can begin offering new
services, and be supported by a company with experience at the global level. It
really opens the doors to a new era of growth.”

**A Focus on Service**

Both Carlin and Servin highlight customer service as the single most
impressive aspect of Rackspace as a company, saying that their
interactions with the Rackspace team have been consistently helpful and
mentioning that they really appreciate receiving support in their native
language. “The service is excellent,” says Servin. “Aside from the fact
that they all speak Spanish, they’re very attentive to everything, every
service ticket I send out. They’re always on top of it.”

Carlin says he wouldn’t hesitate to recommend Rackspace to anyone
looking for a hosting provider, because the focus on service sets it
apart from other companies. “They’re not just in it for the sale,” he
insists. “The Rackspace team really cares about you. They have the
knowledge, the experience, and the capabilities to give your business
results, and to help you find whatever you are looking for, but it’s not
just the work they do, it’s the special something they have in their
service.”

When asked what recommendation he might give to industry peers
considering similar services, Carlin says: “I’d say, if you already do
your work well, with Rackspace you can do it even better. You can try
other data centers, in your region or in the US, but it’s really worth
trying with Rackspace, because it’s not just the work they do, it’s the
extra level of service they give that helps you do things better.”
