---
permalink: mindscope-finds-rackspace-fanatical-support-beneficial/
audit_date:
title: mindSCOPE Finds Rackspace Fanatical Support Beneficial
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-11-30'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.mindscope.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/mindscope-finds-rackspace-fanatical-support-beneficial/mindscope.png %}" width="250" height="49" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Applicant tracking and candidate testing software

**CHALLENGES:** Excessive downtime and lack of support from previous
provider

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
[managed
backup](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/storage/managedbackup/),
[firewalls](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/firewalls/),
and [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Guaranteed uptime, expertise, and the ability to
expand into larger and more complex configurations

### Company Overview

Operating out of offices in Toronto and Los Angeles, mindSCOPE Staffing
Software focuses on delivering applicant tracking and candidate testing
software geared toward the staffing industry. mindSCOPE relies heavily
on Rackspace to provide a resilient infrastructure on which to deliver
their revenue-generating web application.

But when mindSCOPE developed a new application, one they hoped would
become the future of their business, they chose to move this new product
to a different hosting provider. Due to poor service and response times
at this new provider, mindSCOPE's clients experienced an unacceptable
amount of downtime.

During the course of these difficulties, mindSCOPE described the
provider responsible for the issues as unresponsive and unprofessional,
while the staff at Rackspace, which were in no way responsible, offered
friendly and helpful advice. It became clear to mindSCOPE that the level
of service and support that it felt were vital to offering its customers
was not going to be achieved by remaining with this new hosting
provider. As a result, mindSCOPE decided to move this application over
to Rackspace, a company that it felt reflected its own level of customer
service and professionalism.

### Situation

mindSCOPE Staffing Software is one of the largest providers of Active
Server Pages (ASP) and data networking solutions geared toward the
staffing industry. In 1999, mindSCOPE moved from being solely a
distributor of computer-based training software to a professional
software development firm by creating their staffing software product
known as mindSCOPE<sup>&trade;</sup>.

For staffing agencies that receive hundreds of resumes by email or CD,
the mindSCOPE software electronically extracts the candidate's
information into a database and automatically creates a candidate
record, saving time and eliminating manual errors. The application also
allows interfacing with job postings on a company's website, as well as
advanced searching and matching, allowing agencies to narrow candidate
lists based on certain criteria, offering the most qualified candidate
for the job.

mindSCOPE originally hosted this legacy product in house, but as their
client base grew so did a need for more reliability and uptime. The
company looked for a dependable hosting expert to support this
application, as well as their website and database, and ultimately chose
Rackspace because of its 100 percent network uptime guarantee and famed
***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***.

But when mindSCOPE recently developed a new web-based product, CURA<sup>&trade;</sup>,
they decided to have this product hosted with a different provider.

"Our legacy product runs on SQL database and is fairly simple; one
server can handle everything," says Kris Abbott, technical manager,
mindSCOPE. "But with our CURA product and the advent of more technology,
our configuration grew into a larger and more complex setup. Being a
small company on a limited budget, we opted to move our CURA product
elsewhere."

So mindSCOPE kept their legacy product hosted at Rackspace but moved
their CURA configuration to a different hosting provider.

"We learned the hard way that what you pay for is what you get," says
Abbott. mindSCOPE soon became very dissatisfied with the service they
were receiving regarding their CURA product.

"Through an emergency situation, we came to realize we were dealing with
an entirely different type of organization," says Becky Evans, president
of mindSCOPE. "We came to realize what great service we had at Rackspace
and it wasn't worth what we were saving a month to deal with."

Evans described the day like any other Friday. She received a call that
there had been a problem with the servers and their website would be
down, but was reassured that everything would be alright and the problem
was being handled. She was confident that things would be back to normal
soon.

Then 5 p.m. came and everyone went home; problem not solved. "That was
the real issue," says Evans. "We were left to deal with some very junior
level support. Five o'clock came, and they were like, 'well too bad,
have a nice weekend; we'll talk to you Monday.' We were unable to get
any high level questions answered. There was absolutely no customer
service."

### Solution

With nowhere else to turn and still having an account at Rackspace,
mindSCOPE decided to give their Account Manager a call in hopes he was
still in the office that evening. "Luckily our Account Manager was still
there," says Abbott. "He helped us confirm what we already knew was a
bad situation. The other provider was very slow in identifying the
seriousness of the problem."

Their Account Managerr at Rackspace provided a list of detailed support
questions and suggestions to provide to those high-level technicians
when they were finally able to locate and speak to them. As a result,
mindSCOPE was able to get their application back up and running by
Monday.

"Our client's data is their business. Those resumes are their property
and ultimately their currency," says Evans. "Errors were made by the
provider's technicians that resulted in our lack of confidence that it
was ethical to leave our clients most valuable resources in their
keeping."

Rackspace did not do anything specific to physically solve mindSCOPE's
problem. "What Rackspace did that emphasized their ***Fanatical Support*** was
work hard through the weekend preparing a configuration to move our CURA
product over to Rackspace," says Evans. "We were already considering
coming back. We had signed a one-year contract with the previous
provider that was coming to an end, and obviously we were not happy with
them. This was just the final nail in the coffin."

### Benefits

To ensure something like this never happens again, mindSCOPE relies on
Rackspace's proactive, technical expertise, fueled by their famed
***Fanatical Support***.

"We worked hard with Rackspace on setting up multiple fault tolerance
and redundancy," says Abbott. "Rackspace did an amazing job building
this redundancy within the servers and helping us do all this within a
limited budget. We may be a small business in comparison to others, but
Rackspace has never made us feel small or unimportant."

According to mindSCOPE, it all comes down to customer service.
"Rackspace has always met and exceeded our expectations," says Abbott.
"With Rackspace we never find ourselves in those tough situations. They
have always been proactive, keeping us up-to- date in regards to how our
application is interacting with the hardware and helping us attack a
problem before it happens."

When mindSCOPE first moved their CURA product over to Rackspace, there
was a time of trial and error. "There's an amount of growing pains that
comes along with any new application," says Evans. "At the beginning, we
were overcompensating on our backup and were running into tremendous
overages. Rackspace waved these overage charges and helped determine how
much backup we actually need, whereas another company might have just
charged us."

mindSCOPE has three HP DL385 servers running Windows 2003 Enterprise,
two firewalls and managed backup. Rackspace is also proactively working
on updating mindSCOPE's configuration so that the legacy and CURA
products can operate on the same server, ultimately saving mindSCOPE
more money.

"Customer service in a nut shell is what it's all about," says Abbott.
"We too are in a service business. We strive for something very similar.
You have to keep your customers happy and Rackspace does that through
***Fanatical Support***. To me, that means being prompt, knowledgeable,
friendly, well communicated, consistent and reassuring, and Rackspace
backs that up day in and day out."
