---
permalink: modern-retail-perfects-its-services-using-private-cloud/
audit_date:
title: Modern Retail Perfects Its Services Using Private Cloud
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-28'
created_by: Karla Holmes
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.modernretail.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/modern-retail-perfects-its-services-using-private-cloud/modernretail.png %}" />
</a>

**COMPANY'S BUSINESS:** SaaS eCommerce tool provider for online
retailers; Provide integration with in-store point-of-sales systems

**CHALLENGE:** Availability of the site is business-critical

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Private
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/private_cloud/index.php),
[Cloud
Servers<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/servers/),
[Cloud
Files<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/),
[Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/configurations.php),
[Intrusion Detection
System](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/threatmgr.php),
Dedicated Networking Gear

**OUTCOME:** Uptime and ability to focus on core competency

[**Click here to download the full case
study.**](http://c179631.r31.cf0.rackcdn.com/CaseStudy_ModernRetail.pdf)

### Company Overview

Modern Retail helps specialty brick-and-mortar retailers branch out onto
the Internet with branded, beautifully-designed, and highly functional
online shops. Today, these retailers’ web sites are running on a
Rackspace Private Cloud.

### Turnkey Solutions for Retailers

Founded in 1998, Modern Retail has long recognized that specialty
retailers face a dilemma. They would love to expand their market reach
via the Internet but they don’t have the expertise in-house to do it
themselves. They don’t have expertise in website design, hosting, search
engine optimization, marketing or integrating their in-store point of
sale systems with their online stores. And they often don’t want to add
costs to their operational overhead.

So Modern Retail has developed turnkey ecommerce solutions that it
delivers via a software-as-a-service (SaaS) model. Retailers are free to
focus on their core business priorities, while Modern Retail maximizes
their Internet presence and drives online sales.

Given that Modern Retail is built around an outsourcing concept, it’s no
surprise that it makes savvy use of outsourcing itself. Take its server
infrastructure, for example. Modern Retail has always used managed
hosting. “It was in our business plan when we launched the company,”
notes Todd Myers, President of Modern Retail.

“We want our employees to focus on our business, not on troubleshooting
servers.”

And for many years, Modern Retail was happy with its original hosting
provider. “But as we evolved,” Myers says, “we needed a provider that
would help us take our business to the next level.”

Modern Retail found that provider in Rackspace.

### Managed Private Cloud Boosts Performance & Availability

Switching to Rackspace proved to be a smart decision.

Modern Retail saw an immediate boost in both performance and
availability, for example. The company’s customers noticed, too. “Their
websites loaded more quickly,” Myers says. In the past, customers would
experience downtime during maintenance or upgrades. Today, the
availability of Modern Retail’s servers is 99.99%, according to Myers.
“Our availability is as good as Amazon’s and magnitudes better than what
a specialty retailer could do by themselves.”

The Rackspace hosting solution is also more scalable. “With the
Rackspace Private Cloud, it’s very easy to add capacity,” Myers says.
“It’s often as simple as picking up the phone or submitting a support
ticket.”

Rackspace provides information and expertise to help Modern Retail
understand its capacity requirements. It provides monthly and real-time
online reports on the capacity utilization of Modern Retail’s servers.
This helps Modern Retail with its capacity planning. “They help us
accurately forecast our future infrastructure needs and costs,” says
Myers.

### Support Technicians “In Tune With Our Business”

Rackspace provides Modern Retail proactive yet cost-effective management
of the company’s hosting environment. “We have dedicated technicians
assigned to our account,” Myers says. “We get the same people every time
we have questions or need help. They’re in tune with our infrastructure
and business model. They understand our needs and how we utilize our
various servers so we don’t have to spend time explaining it to someone
every time we submit a support ticket. Instead, Rackspace immediately
attacks the problem, which ultimately provides better service to our
customers.”

Rackspace delivers on its support services—making good on its reputation
for offering exceptional customer service, branded [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/). In
a recent example, Modern Retail's mis-step caused a problem with one of their
servers while performing an upgrade. “It was our issue, not
Rackspace’s,” Myers says, “but Rackspace dug into the guts of the issue
and figured it out. They never once pushed back or told us that it was
outside of their realm of responsibility. They just solved the problem.”

### Clear-Cut Solutions for Complex Requirements

“When PCI standards were first issued, we realized we needed a hosting
provider that was an expert in security,” Myers says. “Rackspace is that
provider. They know how to configure our infrastructure which helps us
in our compliance with PCI standards and are working with third parties
to provide the ongoing monitoring to stay compliant. Not only did this
make it easier for Modern Retail to get its PCI compliance but it also
eliminated much of the work and time it takes to become compliant, which
of course saves us money.”

Rackspace introduced Modern Retail to a company that specializes in IT
security and compliance automation. Rackspace worked with that provider
to implement its intrusion detection and log management solutions for
Modern Retail. “What’s nice is Rackspace works directly with that
provider. If there’s ever a problem with our hardware and service,
Rackspace steps in and works directly with the provider to get the issue
resolved. This, of course, allows Modern Retail to focus on our core
business.” Myers says.

PCI compliance gives Modern Retail a significant competitive advantage.
“One of our customers decided to try another e-commerce provider,” Myers
notes. “Her website got hacked into a year later. She’s now back with
Modern Retail.”

Experiences like this illustrate just how important Rackspace is to
Modern Retail’s success. “We view Rackspace as a partner,” Myers says.
“They have really smart people who aren’t afraid to get into the
trenches and fight the battle with you. This approach helps Modern
Retail achieve both our technical and business goals so we can deliver
even greater value to our customers.”
