---
permalink: morgan-sampson-lowers-costs-and-upgrades-features/
audit_date:
title: 'Morgan & Sampson Lowers Costs and Upgrades Features'
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-06'
created_by: Liz Staplefoote
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.morgansampsonusa.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/morgan-sampson-lowers-costs-and-upgrades-features/morgan_sampson.jpg %}" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Provides a dedicated sales force to help
principals and retailers establish new product brands and improve return
on investment

**CHALLENGE:** Lack of responsive support, remote access, and adequate
storage

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace
Email](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/rackspace_email/)
with 10GB mailboxes, IMAP access, and [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Reduced monthly email expenditures, plus better
features to support users

### Buyout Leaves Poor Support

With a representation of numerous manufacturers in a variety of
categories, Morgan & Sampson provides a committed sales force focused on
driving revenue. Their services give manufacturers the support they need
to place their products into retail outlets. When Peter Medrano, IT
Director at Morgan & Sampson, arrived, he found employees using
disparate, consumer email services from different providers. After
moving to a single email provider, that provider was bought out by
GoDaddy.

“Everything was fine until there was a support issue. You could be down
a long time before they’d even admit there was a problem,” says Peter.
Aside from the lack of support with GoDaddy, there was too much downtime
and inadequate storage, “End users were complaining every week,” reports
Peter. The company sends about 50 emails to one phone call, making
dependable business email vital to their business success. “If email is
down, we aren’t making any money. Email is everyone’s main communication
tool today. You expect it to work. Just as you expect a dial tone when
you pick up the phone,” says Peter.

When Peter began his hunt for a new email host, he sought a reliable
business email provider to support their business goals. “We are a
frugal, well-operated organization actively reinvesting in our future.
And, we were looking for the biggest bang for our buck.”

### More Features for Less Money

Peter researched Rackspace and was pleased with what he found. After
testing a personal domain on Rackspace Email, he was sold. “It was like
night and day compared to our GoDaddy service, plus, Rackspace Email has
more included storage space, great speed, and IMAP access.”

With employees working remotely, IMAP capability was essential. They
used GoDaddy’s POP service which makes working with email in multiple
locations difficult. With Rackspace Email, they have the ability to
access their [updated webmail
client](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/rackspace_email/on_the_web/)
from any internet connection or browser. “With all the features, it was
the only email service I found with everything we needed at a very, very
low price. It’s been one of the best investments we’ve made!” Rackspace
Email was built for business email users with calendar, contacts, tasks,
and notes combined into one intuitive web-based interface.

According to Peter, “Setting up the account and moving over to webmail
was simple. No problems whatsoever. The move was painless and went off
beautifully.” Rackspace provides a dedicated Transition Team to assist
new customers with the [transition and migration
process](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/migrations/).

### Replaces High Fees with High-Quality Support

“It’s transparent. People aren’t complaining anymore, so I know it’s
working,” says Peter. Their satisfaction with Rackspace is driven by
their happiness with their new email service and the tremendous value
they get from Rackspace Email. “We were actually able to drop the amount
we were paying for email and get better service with Rackspace Email,”
explains Peter. “It’s a bill we don’t even notice, and extra features
have been added at no additional cost,” Peter says. Recently, we added
10GB storage and mobile sync to all Rackspace Email mailboxes without
increasing fees.

The value extends to the importance of having a team of email experts
available when he needs help. “We recently switched ISPs. The ISP said
we’d have no problems. Of course, we had a problem. And the ISP was
dragging their feet to get it resolved. Then, I spoke with a support
representative at Rackspace. They went above and beyond by identifying a
possible glitch and actually contacting the ISP to get it resolved. I
was shocked at the lengths he went to help resolve the issue,” shares
Peter. That’s ***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>*** in action.

With email becoming their main communication tool, Peter states, “We
needed more stability around email, both for the company and for me as
the IT Director. We didn’t have it before, but we have it now with
Rackspace. The service with Rackspace is unbelievable compared to other
companies.”
