---
permalink: nohold-helps-companies-improve-enterprise-conversion-virtually/
audit_date:
title: noHold Helps Companies Improve Enterprise Conversion Virtually
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-11-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.nohold.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/nohold-helps-companies-improve-enterprise-conversion-virtually/noHoldlogo.jpg %}" width="156" height="104" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** noHold develops interactive and diagnostic virtual
assistant technology to help improve customer experiences and increase revenue.

**CHALLENGES:** Lower costs; expedite speed and accuracy of diagnostic
solutions; restore developer focus on main expertise

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Managed
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-cloud), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/?cm_mmc=PPCCloudBU-_-Google-_-broad-_-php+host),
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers), [Hybrid
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** noHold has improved scalability, reduced costs,
strengthened its ability to develop products, and has greater confidence
in the performance of its hosted environment during seasonal demand
spikes.

### Optimizing for quality of service and growth with Rackspace Managed Cloud

Founded in 1999, noHold makes automated, virtual customer support so
natural and effective, it seems like you’re interacting with a real
person. The Milpitas, California- based company creates virtual
assistants to help large enterprise clients in a variety of industries
improve customer satisfaction and increase sales.

Focused on helping companies create superior web self-service systems,
noHold works with a client roster that includes several Fortune 500
companies. By collecting actionable customer behavior and metrics based
on strategic outcomes, companies who work with noHold and its EZintel
technology can analyze measurable customer input and intelligence,
promoting offerings accordingly.

“We’ve been Rackspace customers for over ten years, and it has been a
great experience,” explains Dario DeSantis, Product & Engineering
Manager for noHold. “Rackspace has added enormous value by helping us
understand the flexibility and resources we need to accommodate growth,
and to offer the best possible quality of service within budgetary
constraints.”

### Activating the Rackspace Solution

noHold works with each client to assign specific customer needs and then
custom design a virtual assistant used as the front line for the
consumer interaction. “These Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based expert
systems are based on support knowledge that our customers provide,” said
DeSantis. “[The systems] look a bit like web chat, but instead of
chatting with a human being, you are chatting with an artificial
intelligence agent which is able to answer your questions.”

The highly interactive and diagnostic noHold solution enables phone
users to avoid having to go on hold during the call. “Because the AI
agent answers your question, you don’t need to escalate to a live agent.
We are able to bring them to the right solution on the basis of natural
language interaction,” said DeSantis. “This is even more powerful,
because normal search implies customers know in advance the right
keywords. Most of the time, however, customers have problems they do not
know how to articulate.”

### Efficiency Affords noHold Focus and Delivery

During the noHold engineering process, when an application is compatible
with customer needs, it is implemented and then passes through quality
assurance and beta testing—with noHold professional services thoroughly
testing every single portal.

“Then it is all deployed on production, and production means Rackspace,”
said DeSantis. “We are hosted in a hybrid cloud where our front-end lies
on the public segment, and we have a private segment where our clients’
databases are hosted. Our Rackspace engineers interact whenever any of
our requirements are changing for various business reasons, or because
of seasonality and demand increases.”

noHold offers a ‘knowledge management for web-customer’ platform, headed
by interacting virtual agents which gather information from users. Data
generated from those interactions then become the basis for customer
insight. Interactions are therefore more efficient, and calls contain
more direct ROI.

### Powering noHold’s Future

According to DeSantis, when you deal with big global companies who
require security and data integrity, you must be able to provide the
same high level of confidence those companies expect. Rackspace provides
the technology and the confidence to offer those securities.

“Clients get a predictable expectation of what the interaction will be,
and it’s going to be fast. They just write a few keywords about their
problem, and they get the result immediately. Or if it’s more
complicated, then the system is able to determine the need for
information, and drive the interaction with users.”

With fast growth—and with Rackspace as an extension of the team—noHold
can evolve its data center rapidly, staying focused on priority work
rather than getting bogged down on IT-related issues. “What makes the
difference..., and probably why we chose Rackspace rather than another
competitor, is the human dimension,” said DeSantis.
