---
permalink: northwest-pediatric-associates-finds-cure-for-business-email/
audit_date:
title: Northwest Pediatric Associates Finds Cure for Business Email
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-06'
created_by: Liz Staplefoote
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="https://www.nwpedi.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/northwest-pediatric-associates-finds-cure-for-business-email/NWPediatrics.png %}" width="268" height="223" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Delivering medical care for infants, children,
and teenagers in the San Antonio area

**CHALLENGES:** Deliverability issues and lack of communication from
previous email provider

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** Selected [Rackspace
Email](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/rackspace_email) for
features and accessibility

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** [Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) with
anywhere access to email

### No Support for Email with No Notification

Email is an important line of communication for the employees at
Northwest Pediatric Associates. Bob Noll, Manager of Information
Technology, says, “I live and die by email as a tech.” Software release
notifications, vendor correspondence, quotes, renewals, and general
business correspondence are all handled by email. When he realized that
their outbound messages weren’t being delivered and they weren’t getting
any delivery failure notifications, they went to their email provider
for resolution.

However, when Bob contacted their email hosting provider, there was no
help desk available. By going to their website, he found out the
provider no longer supported his email product. They never even notified
him of the change in support, and now the pediatric clinic was stuck
with no one to call for help. “It was simply unacceptable,” says Bob.
Northwest Pediatrics needed secure, reliable email right away with a
responsive, dependable provider.

### Rackspace Email is the Clear Winner

The process of finding a new provider was easy once he landed on the
Rackspace website. “I was impressed with the site and how much thought
was put into it,” recognizes Bob. “The website is well-organized, easy
to understand, and I liked the no ‘car salesman approach.’ Many websites
are so unclear that you end up having to call a salesperson who, in the
end, doesn’t have the answer for you.”

After reviewing our business email services online, he selected
Rackspace Email for the office. Rackspace Email provides them with
affordable enterprise-level business email service, plus an application
suite including calendar, contacts, tasks, and notes. They also get
mobile sync service and unlimited access to Fanatical Support.

He was even more impressed when he called and got someone on the phone
immediately. “I was happy with how smooth and easy it was to do business
with you. Everyone and everything was very transparent. I am thoroughly
impressed with Fanatical Support,” says Bob. He found the support site
documentation especially helpful. “I knew exactly how to get our email
up and running after reading the information on your support site.”

Northwest Pediatric Associates had the best kind of transition to
Rackspace, “End-users didn’t even realize when the switch had occurred.
Everything just worked and there were no delays,” reports Bob.

### Another Happy Rackspace Email Customer

“With Rackspace Email, we can access email anywhere, whether in a hotel
room or overseas. That’s something we didn’t have with our previous
provider,” according to Bob. After the problems he experienced with his
previous providers, “I’m impressed with deliverability.” He reports that
our spam filters are “very good,” allowing him to get only the email he
wants. And, best of all, according to Bob, “It’s secure. I know my email
is being read by who should be reading it and being sent by who should
be sending it.”

“On-shore support, where everyone speaks English, is a big plus to us.
Many companies have outsourced support overseas, and the language
barrier alters a fanatical experience,” Bob explains. He prefers using
chat for quick answers to easy issues. For more in-depth issues, he can
access live representatives by phone around the clock. Each time he
calls, “You can feel the exuberance to serve the customer. It’s great to
see such a customer-focused company. You can tell, all you want is a
happy customer,” he says. And, it looks like we have another happy
customer in Northwest Pediatric Associates.
