---
permalink: aoakley-re-platforms-infrastructure-online-to-omnichannel/
audit_date:
title: Oakley Re-Platforms Infrastructure Online to Omnichannel
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-22'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.oakley.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/oakley-re-platforms-infrastructure-online-to-omnichannel/Oakley.png %}" width="365" height="169" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Oakley is a California-based sportswear company
that sells high-performance apparel to competitive athletes and the
people they inspire.

**CHALLENGES:** Oakley is currently re-platforming to become
omnichannel, requiring a major overall of hardware and infrastructure,
Oakley needs to ensure their website is up and running 24/7, and
structured to handle traffic fluctuations throughout the year.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Managed
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/de/cloud/managed), [Managed
Virtualization](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-virtualization/),
[Rackspace DBA Services](http://www.rackspace.com/dba-services/),
[Dedicated
NAS](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/storage/dnas/),
[Dedicated
SAN](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/storage/san/) and
[Managed
SAN](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/storage/san/),
[Alert Logic
IDS](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/threatmgr/),
[Hybris](http://www.rackspace.com/ecommerce-hosting/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Oakley’s re-platforming initiative has gone
smoothly, with no delays or issues due to hardware or infrastructure.
Rackspace enables Oakley’s digital team to focus on their core business.

### Rackspace anticipates future needs

In today’s fast-paced digital environment, Oakley relies on Rackspace to
anticipate future needs and keep their business online no matter the
circumstances.

Founded in Southern California in 1975 by Jim Jannard, Oakley became
famous for one of Jannard’s earliest innovations, its iconic curved-lens
goggles and sunglasses, which quickly became favored equipment for
professional athletes like Tour de France winner Greg LeMond. Today,
Oakley is a full-fledged sportswear company, selling a wide variety of
prescription and non-prescription eyewear as well as high-performance
apparel that leverages the latest technology coming out of its labs.
Oakley’s customers range from world-class professional athletes to
weekend warriors and style-conscious young people all over the world.

Oakley works closely with top athletes, whose passion and drive inspires
the company’s endeavors to innovate, expand, and offer a cutting-edge
customer experience. A non-traditional company, Oakley aims to break the
mold and is willing to push hard to get things done. Their desire to act
quickly and decisively in their business dealings is just one of the
many reasons they value their relationship with Rackspace, who they’ve
been hosting with since 2003. The Oakley team praises Rackspace
willingness to cut through red tape to get things done quickly, and the
way Rackspace specialists bring experience and a can-do attitude to each
new challenge. In addition to hosting with Rackspace, Oakley uses
Rackspace DBA services, and relies on them to provide extra guidance and
expertise during transition periods, such as during their current
re-platforming initiative.

### The Lights are Always on with Rackspace

When asked what Oakley values most about their relationship with
Rackspace, Oakley’s Director of Digital Technology, Kadima Lonji doesn’t
hesitate to pinpoint the simply reliability of Rackspace as a service
provider. Oakley strives to ensure its customer service matches the high
quality of its products, and that means, among other things, ensuring
customers always have access to Oakley’s website and the full range of
services it offers. Lonji says he judges Rackspace performance as a web
host based on one simple metric: how many outages occur in a single
year, measured in hours or, ideally, minutes. This concern is easy to
understand given that a business like Oakley can lose vast sums of money
for every hour that they’re down, with the stakes increasing at peak
times, like during the holiday season.

“If we have no outages, we don’t lose money,” he explains. “If we have a
Christmas where we have no hiccups, all those hours where we didn’t have
hiccups are money that we make, and hence the value we get from hosting
with Rackspace is justified many times over.”

How many outages did Oakley experience last year? Lonji says only 30
minutes over the whole 365-day period, and emphasizes that the single
outage that did occur was due to an internal error and out of Rackspace
hands. “That doesn’t happen by accident,” Lonji says appreciatively. “In
order to not have outages, you always have to be ahead of things. And
ahead of things means, thinking about all the possible things that can
break, anticipating and planning... that’s what I appreciate most about
Rackspace.” Lonji says Rackspace is so reliable as a backend service
provider, and has been providing Oakley with consistent service for so
long, that they almost take it for granted, and he considers that a good
thing: “The parallel I can draw is that when we walk into work every
day, we expect water to be available in the bathroom, and the lights to
work, and we don’t even think about it. And that is what Rackspace
provides us. It’s always on, always reliable.”

### Seasonal Demands and Peak Methodology

One of the tricky aspects of managing Oakley’s infrastructure is
anticipating and managing the changes in traffic during high and low
seasons, or surrounding special events. When Oakley launches a new
project, for example, the attention and excitement can translate into
major traffic increases, and that extra traffic needs to be handled in
such a way that the shopping experience is not impacted. Lonji credits
Rackspace experts for setting up a system that gives Oakley flexibility
and the ability to handle these fluctuations: “If we observe a capacity
need that is in excess of what we have, it’s pretty quick for us to add
and expand our environment, and that kind of architecture is something
we were advised to set up by the Rackspace digital team that supports
us.” Lonji also attributes the lack of outages to the due diligence of
the Rackspace specialists who run yearly load-tests and regularly assess
Oakley’s capacity and environment to ensure they can handle peak
traffic.

### Re-platforming to Omnichannel

Oakley is currently in the process of re-platforming to become
omnichannel, unifying their web, retail, and call center operations
under a single system using the popular ecommerce platform Hybris.
Oakley is confident this re-platform will improve their customer
service: a centralized system ensures that the information customers
receive will always be personalized and up to date and that their
experience will be seamless across all channels of communication.
Oakley’s internal operations also stand to benefit considerably, as the
new platform will help them manage the supply chain and keep tabs on
inventory, ensuring it can be efficiently moved to wherever it’s most
needed. With over 200 stores and 35,000 dealers selling Oakley products,
it’s crucial that Oakley can manage the needs of its business clients
and ensure they have efficient access to all channels of communication.

To begin the re-platforming effort, Oakley needed to centralize all
their hardware and technology in a single place, and ensure that it
would be reliable and available 24/7, which is why they came to
Rackspace. Lonji says Rackspace played an integral role in
re-platforming, and that throughout the project Rackspace felt more like
a partner than just an implementer, invested in making sure things went
smoothly. “They were able to anticipate when we needed what hardware, at
what stage in the project, etc. They even pushed us to make sure that we
engaged them early so that they were not in any way a bottleneck in the
project, so that every time we had a milestone, they were ahead of it,
and on time,” he continued. “In many projects, if you don’t plan with
the infrastructure team and the hosting company, they sometimes become a
delay. In this case, we didn’t have any delays because of Rackspace, and
that’s due to their planning and anticipation and experience.” Overall,
Lonji says he would recommend Rackspace to any company considering
re-platforming, for the experience they can bring to the table. “Each
re-platforming experience is obviously different,” he concedes, “but
there are common threads and there is wisdom you can leverage when you
engage Rackspace.”
