---
permalink: online-auto-superstore-carid-tunes-up-digital-performance/
audit_date:
title: Online Auto Superstore CARiD Tunes Up Digital Performance
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-11-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.carid.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/online-auto-superstore-carid-tunes-up-digital-performance/CARiDlogo.gif %}" width="252" height="180" />
</a>


**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS**: Online
auto accessories and parts aftermarket retailer CARiD offers the
nation’s widest variety and top brands. CARiD.com caters to all levels,
from the DIY home mechanic to custom shops and dealers.

**CHALLENGES**: Success in the aftermarket parts and accessories online
market demands convenience, reliable product data, and attentive
customer service. To compete, the company needs to deliver information
and online product offerings to a rapidly expanding global audience
faster, but faces limitations with its legacy systems.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:  **[Rackspace Managed Cloud
Servers](https://www.rackspace.com/managed-cloud/), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/?cm_mmc=PPCCloudBU-_-Google-_-broad-_-php+host),
[Hybrid Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/), [Cloud
Files](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files), [Cloud Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME**: With the support of Rackspace, CARiD.com delivers
an always-on, state-of-the-art, personalized customer experience,
optimized for clients.

### While Rackspace focuses on IT infrastructure on a Hybrid Cloud.

New Jersey-based CARiD supplies the best auto components and accessories
from top providers. The company’s online ecommerce site CARiD.com offers
exterior and interior accessories for cars, trucks, and SUVs, as well as
performance parts, automotive lighting items, wheels and tires, and
replacement parts.

CARiD.com is the industry’s leading cutting edge superstore for
everything automotive, committed to the consumer online shopping
experience. CARiD differentiates the brand on delivering the highest
level of customer service through call-center representatives,
responsive online staff and efficient social media and other
marketing-driven relationship tools.

“Since we connect consumers to automotive brand manufacturers whose
expertise is not ecommerce, at CARiD we strive to energize manufacturer
brands and their product assortment,” explains Len Stavish, COO at
CARiD. “It is at this intersection where our technology, business
processes and people make the difference. We provide great products and
the very best product information and fitment data in the industry,
while assuring the client has a great experience.”

### A Faster, More Competitive Marketplace

With the global automotive ecommerce marketplace faster and more
competitive than ever, consumers expect reliable performance and
relevant information on demand and in formats convenient to wherever and
whenever they want it.

“Our development team are critical thinkers who collectively ensure that
our automotive everything superstore is presented in a variety of forms
that conveniently empower visitors,” said Stavish.

The shopping pattern CARiD pays close attention to these days is the
Millennial demographic’s comfort with conducting its business over
mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones.

“Millennials represent the empowered and self-sufficient future of our
business, which has consistently grown up and to the right, year over
year,” said Stavish. “With such explosive growth, we made the decision
to identify and partner with a premier dedicated and cloud-based hosted
platform service provider. When a Rackspace exists, it didn’t make sense
for us to handle our IT infrastructure and support expense in-house.”

### Enabling Performance and Satisfaction

“For CARiD, hosting with Rackspace means that we maintain greater than
99% uptime 24x7x365,” said Stavish. “To a global consumer base, this is
essential. If we are not there for clients, they’ll go elsewhere.
Knowing that our CARiD superstore is always accessible at any time
allows me to sleep at night knowing that we have taken the right care
for our clients and business.”

The CARiD team uses a Rackspace architecture consisting of dedicated
database servers connected to multiple cloud web servers, allowing the
company to deliver relevant information, useful online tools and the
latest technology to a give users quick, easy access, and consistent
performance with no delays.

“Knowing that you do not need to carry the internal IT infrastructure
and support cost allows for our vendors to have confidence that their
brands and their products are being given all the online uptime
possible,” said Stavish. “We have been able to quickly activate servers
without upfront cost, as well as add capacity.”

### Changes Without Compromising Speed

CARiD reports that the Rackspace relationship has helped to simplify
their IT architecture solution. With 24x7x365 engineering support, the
CARiD team is more confident.

“Rackspace has been a solid strategic business partner,” said Stavish.
“They have good people and processes in place to help make our business
interactions efficient and effective. It’s great when you know that you
have a dedicated partner, and people who care about your success.”

CARiD views Rackspace as key in helping remove barriers that previously
confronted the company. “Before Rackspace, it would be difficult to make
changes without compromising speed,” concludes Stavish. “With Rackspace,
we’re able to save time and effort. Working with Rackspace means greater
flexibility, more space for growth and lower costs going forward.”
