---
permalink: open-api-wepay-powers-secure-responsive-ecommerce-experiences/
audit_date:
title: 'Open-API WePay Powers Secure, Responsive Ecommerce Experiences'
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-18'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-28'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="https://www.wepay.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/open-api-wepay-powers-secure-responsive-ecommerce-experiences/WePay-Logo.jpg %}" width="400" height="80" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Built for marketplaces, crowd funding and small
business software, WePay provides a better payment experience and
protects platforms from the risk of loss due to fraud.

**CHALLENGES**: Address rapid customer and transaction growth by
expediting and simplifying application deployment; provide consultative
and virtual expertise, reclaiming WePay developers’ time.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION**: [Rackspace
Dedicated](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/)
and [Cloud Servers with Managed Service
Level](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/), [Cloud
Files](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files/), [Cloud Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing/), [Rackspace
DevOps Automated Service](http://www.rackspace.com/devops/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME**: Rackspace has helped speed the WePay solution and
scale its infrastructure, improving the productivity of its developers,
enabling the company to deliver more consistent, faster payment security
and support.

### Rackspace allows specialized payment solution platform to scale quickly.

Founded in 2008, Palo Alto-based WePay is a flexible online payments
API. Designed for crowdfunding, marketplaces and software for small
businesses, the fast-growing company offers users a seamless experience
and fraud protection, allowing customers to access WePay payment
capabilities as well as process credit cards.

”Our customers are trying to charge a buyer and pay a seller, and
complexities abound when it comes to facilitating payment,” explains
Bill Clerico, WePay Founder and CEO. “Thousands of developers that have
come and built on our platform, which facilitates an entire transaction,
underwriting the risk. And it’s really unique value for that type of
business.”

The typical WePay customer is a developer building a marketplace (think
of Uber, Etsy or AirBNB), a crowdfunding site such as Gofundme or
Kickstarter, or a small business software platform for invoicing or
cloud accounting.

### Meeting Challenges Head on with Rackspace

Because the rapidly growing company processes thousands of transactions
and hundreds of millions of dollars per year, it chose Rackspace and
DevOps to help it build a robust backend. “I’ve known Rackspace for a
long time, and we had worked together at a pretty small capacity to host
internal servers,” Clerico says. “As the cloud advanced and as different
solutions advanced, we decided to take advantage of these Rackspace
capabilities to help our growth.”

“In the span of just three months, we doubled our transaction volume,
which put a huge load on our servers,” Clerico says, describing the sort
of expansion that also entails surges in transactions per second, fraud
analyses and increasing customer expectations of uptime, availability
and response.

Consulting with Rackspace experts, WePay began using a combination of
services, including dedicated storage, managed hardware and cloud
services. "We had to scale infrastructure quickly,” Clerico says. “It
would have been hard to do a lot of the things we needed with just the
team we had internally, nor could we build our team fast enough, and
that is one of the reasons we chose Rackspace to help us grow.”

### DevOps Automation Service from Rackspace

“Security issues make payments unique in that you can’t just use default
cloud hosting providers,” Clerico says. “Likewise, managing a full data
center is time consuming. You don’t necessarily want to have raw
hardware for everything; you want that hybrid, cloud hardware approach.
We see the value of a managed cloud infrastructure to help us navigate
all of the above for our users.”

To allow WePay developers a more worry-free development and deployment
environment, the DevOps Automation Service from Rackspace is now helping
WePay’s development team rapidly expand its development infrastructure
without taking on more systems management tasks.

“One of the reasons we chose Rackspace was speed to get live assistance
around DevOps,” Clerico says. “Previously we’d manage individual servers
manually, but now the configuration is entirely automated through Chef
script. It’s something we always wanted to do but never set aside time
to get done, and it was great that we were able to lean on the folks at
Rackspace to help us get it running faster.”

“We were able to spin out a new data center in Rackspace in the time
that it would have taken to add a couple of boxes to our old setup,”
Clerico said of the service, which lets developers take advantage of
agile tools and processes to help speed and continuously deliver
features to market.

As WePay grows, building multiple data centers and adding
infrastructure, Clerico says that all signs are positive. “Over the next
five to ten years there’s going to be a huge shift away from traditional
ecommerce to this distributed, connected, collaborative commerce,”
concludes Clerico. “I’m looking forward to investing in the Rackspace
relationship.”
