---
permalink: pangea-foundation-created-emergency-solution-for-211-san-diego-during-wildfires-relied-on/
audit_date:
title: 'Pangea Foundation Created Emergency Solution for 211 San Diego during Wildfires, Relied on Rackspace for Infrastructure'
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-12-03'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.pangeafoundation.org/index.asp">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/pangea-foundation-created-emergency-solution-for-211-san-diego-during-wildfires-relied-on/Pangeafoundation.png %}" width="372" height="55" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** scalable, enterprise-class software for non-profit
organizations

**CHALLENGES:** Maintaining availability during emergencies

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated web and database
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
[content management
solution](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/public/sites/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Reliable hosting gives them the ability to launch
content management system to instantly update disaster and emergency
information without worrying about infrastructure maintenance

### Company Overview

Pangea Foundation is a San Diego-based nonprofit that started in 1996
with the mission to bring the very best information technology solutions
to other nonprofits worldwide. Through intuitive, secure, and
easy-to-use web-based and software-as-a- service applications, Pangea
Foundation helps these nonprofits visualize and communicate the impact
of their programs by fusing real- time statistical program results with
advanced data visualization technologies.

### Situation

On Tuesday, Oct. 23, Pangea Foundation received a phone call from a
representative of 211 San Diego, San Diego County's comprehensive
provider of community information. 211 San Diego was gravely concerned
about the stability of its website. Just on the first day of the
fast-moving California wildfires, the 211 website was overwhelmed with
more than a million hits and an increasing number of phone calls as more
than a million people evacuated their homes and sought information.

As a result, the 211 database could not handle the high volume of
inquiries and eventually crashed. An even larger challenge existed as
the site did not address the needs of the disaster at hand. Because of
Pangea Foundation's experience developing enterprise web applications
for nonprofits, 211 San Diego reached out to the foundation for
assistance in immediately addressing three specific areas of concern:
bandwidth, server capacity and updating critical data on the website.

Early on in the wildfires, 211 San Diego had several critical needs.
Everything from getting the existing website back online, on new servers
with enough bandwidth that could handle the capacity, to getting content
such as road closures, evacuation routes, emergency shelter openings and
hospital information uploaded to-the-minute. Instead of simply
bolstering the capacity of the existing 211 San Diego application,
Pangea Foundation's objective was to develop a brand new information
system from the ground up, tailoring it to meet the needs of the current
disaster, and do so in an extremely short period of time.

"We needed to do what we could to quickly alleviate the situation, and
we came up with some initial concepts of ways to help," recalls Kristin
Kuipers, founder and director of programs, Pangea Foundation. "To do
this, we needed new servers brought online. All of our existing
customers are on dedicated Rackspace servers, so we contacted Rackspace
to see how fast we could move to meet the needs of 211 San Diego."

### Solution

"I contacted Rackspace around noon on Tuesday to request assistance, and
a few minutes later I was told there was a plan in the works with their
engineering team at the data center," says Kraig Kuipers, chief
executive officer and president, Pangea Foundation. "Rackspace was all
over this from the start. They understood the seriousness and timeliness
of the situation, and after a series of calls, an agreement was reached.
Less than six hours later, we had a brand new server and database up and
running."

With the new web server and a new database server ready to go at
Rackspace, Pangea Foundation offered to commit both the people and the
resources to design and develop a custom web application—on a pro bono
basis—that would help the 100-150 staff and volunteers at 211 San Diego
more efficiently and effectively communicate disaster relief and
recovery information to people whose lives were affected by the
wildfires.

The number one priority Pangea Foundation and 211 San Diego agreed on
was getting a system in place that could handle the rapidly changing
content. Originally, information was updated every two hours and
operators were just handed a new binder containing the updates. Pangea
Foundation basically designed a solution that took all the content from
different areas to include road closures, evacuation routes, emergency
shelters, repopulation zones, hospital information, and other vital
community resources, and made this information available the very second
there was an update. The software also tracked and reported the nature
of the 211 calls to give local leaders insight into the community's most
vital information needs.

Using software donated by Microsoft, Pangea Foundation created a Content
Management application that enabled research specialists and 211 San
Diego staff the ability to quickly enter updated disaster relief and
recovery information directly into the database-driven web application.
Call operators were then able to login to the system and see the updates
as they happened, rather than being two hours behind.

"Rackspace had the servers online in a matter of hours. This is the very
reason we were able to accomplish what we did for 211 San Diego, because
we had neither the hardware capacity nor the manpower to do it
ourselves," says Kristin Kuipers. "Through managed hosting solutions, we
were able to act so much more quickly because we could rely on a partner
like Rackspace that took care of servers, hosting, bandwidth, and
network infrastructure around the clock so we could focus our efforts on
creating and delivering an application to 211 San Diego."

### Benefits

One of the great things about the application created, is how it
resources 211 San Diego for the future. By tracking the types of 211
calls that occurred, local leaders will be able to better plan for the
next disaster by identifying high areas of concern. They will also have
a better understanding of how to handle certain situations more
effectively next time. According to Kraig Kuipers, a large part of
Pangea Foundation's overall success is a direct result of being able to
offload the server and infrastructure management to Rackspace.

"There would have been absolutely no way we would have been in a
position to buy the equipment, install it, then develop and build the
software application in time to relieve 211 San Diego," he goes on to
admit.

Pangea Foundation has 12 employees who basically worked for two straight
days on the application, while still assisting other customers when
needed. Having Rackspace there to offload the hardware management
increased their ability to step up and serve the needs of San Diego
County quickly and effectively.

"We have found that from the very beginning, Rackspace is willing to
jump through hoops for us," says Kristin Kuipers. "They definitely did a
better job than we could have done ourselves. We used to have a whole
team working on our network infrastructure. Because of Rackspace, they
are now free to focus on our core mission of application development."

More than 1,000 community organizations nationwide, like 211 San Diego,
rely on Pangea Foundation's software to improve service delivery,
measure and report program outcomes, evaluate program impact, and
ultimately increase funder and community confidence. "You can't put a
price on being in a position to act so quickly during disasters like
this. People's lives were at stake. Rackspace's Fanatical Support not
only gives us confidence to do our job, but gives our customers
piece-of- mind that we have the ability to rapidly deploy in times of
emergency," says Kraig Kuipers.

He adds, "When it comes to the broader issue of business continuity,
many community organizations today are at risk. With Rackspace as our
partner, our customers know that if the unexpected occurred, they will
be able to continue with business as usual. So rather than worrying
about losing mission critical data in a disaster, nonprofits can instead
focus on serving people."
