---
permalink: rackspace-servers-keeps-the-bart-website-on-track/
audit_date:
title: Rackspace Servers Keeps the BART Website on Track
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-27'
created_by: Karla Holmes
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://bart.gov/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/rackspace-servers-keeps-the-bart-website-on-track/bart_logo.png %}" />
</a>

**With Rackspace Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>, Someone Always Takes Ownership**

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Public Transit System for the San Francisco Bay
Area

**CHALLENGE:** Needed uptime and reliability for mission-critical, real
time web services for main site that informs customers of route
information.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/configurations.php),
[Firewalls](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/security/firewalls.php),
[Load
Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/loadbalancers/)

**OUTCOME:** More than 2 million users a month rely on bart.gov to help
them get where they are going

### Company Overview

Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) was created in 1957 to provide
alternative, public transportation to citizens in the San Francisco Bay
Area. By offering on-time, reasonably-priced rail service, BART’s
originators hoped to address potential traffic congestion and other
issues that could have a negative impact on San Francisco’s community
and quality of life.

That vision resonates even more strongly today. BART is one of the
most-used municipal rail systems in the United States. Every day, it
gives an average of 327,629 passengers a way to minimize their carbon
footprints by using public transportation.

Needless to say, meeting those riders’ needs requires BART to dedicate
extensive resources to its core business: running trains. But as a
municipal transportation services provider, BART must also maintain a
customer-facing IT infrastructure to communicate information about its
business and rail services. Just as the public depends on BART’s trains,
it also depends on BART’s website to be up-to-date and available around
the clock—which is why BART hosts its web applications on Rackspace
servers.

### People on hand, around the clock, to keep savings online

BART’s web services have always been hosted by an outside provider,
explains Timothy Moore, Website Manager, BART. “We’re not part of IT.
We’re a two-person shop within corporate communications,” Moore says.
“We don’t have the resources to manage server hardware ourselves.”

It took some time, however, to find a managed hosting provider that
really meets BART’s needs.

“Our last provider was acquired several times during the course of our
relationship,” Moore notes. The transitions associated with the
acquisitions were disruptive, which was worrisome enough. Then one day,
the site began experiencing connectivity issues. “One of our PR
initiatives resulted in an uptick in traffic,” Moore says, “and people
were having trouble viewing the site.” But when Moore called the
provider’s help desk, the support staff didn’t convey any sense of
urgency. “They didn’t seem to be very motivated to help us. I realized
they just didn’t understand our needs.”

The incident also served to highlight the need for a more robust web
server infrastructure. “We live in earthquake country,” Moore notes. “We
realized we needed to be better prepared to communicate with the public
and the media in the event of a natural disaster.”

So BART issued a Request for Proposal for a new hosting provider for its
web servers, and Rackspace won the business. “Rackspace was able to
locate servers outside of our area,” Moore notes, which was important
from a disaster recovery standpoint. But equally important was
Rackspace’s commitment to delivering top-notch support. “With Rackspace,
we know we have people on hand, around the clock, to help us keep our
servers online,” Moore says.

### Proactive support team that takes ownership of issues

The migration to Rackspace from BART’s former hosting provider was
seamless. “It was clear from the beginning that this was a play
Rackspace had run numerous times,” Moore says. “It was very orderly,
with no downtime.”

Since the transition, the uptime of BART’s web servers has been
excellent. “The configuration problems and other little things that used
to pop up have completely gone away,” Moore says.

Any time there has been an issue or question, [***Rackspace Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) has
lived up to its reputation. “With Rackspace support, someone always takes
ownership,” Moore says. “And they are very proactive about informing us
about what is going on.”

With Rackspace, BART also knows it can quickly scale up its website
capacity. “Rackspace can add more bandwidth on the networking side, and
also provision new servers if we need them,” Moore notes.

The improved availability of BART’s [web
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
along with the ability to add capacity if needed, better equips the
transit service to meet its customer needs. Equally important, it helps
the transit service maintain its commitment to openness and innovation.
BART uses its web servers, for instance, to publish rail service data
and Application Program Interfaces (APIs). Some 1500 developers use this
BART service to develop third party applications for San Francisco
residents. The apps do everything from serve up-to-the-minute train
arrival data to peoples’ mobile phones, to helping prospective home
buyers determine which neighborhoods are situated near BART stations.

“We were looking for a [hosting provider](http://www.rackspace.com/)
that would be stable for the long haul,” Moore says. “And we needed a
high level of support and services. We found exactly what we needed for
our mission critical systems when we found Rackspace.”

