---
permalink: rackspace-rescues-maritool-from-deliverability-issues/
audit_date:
title: Rackspace Rescues MariTool from Deliverability Issues
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-05'
created_by: Liz Staplefoote
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.maritool.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/rackspace-rescues-maritool-from-deliverability-issues/maritool.png %}"/>
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** High-quality precision machine tools and
accessories

**CHALLENGES:** Deliverability and availability issues with their
previous provider and lack of support for iPhone<sup>&trade;</sup>

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace
Email](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/rackspace_email/)
with [Mobile Sync for
iPhone<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/rackspace_email/on_your_mobile/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Confidence that emails are delivered to the inbox
and a feature-set that better supports business objectives


### MariTool finds themselves blacklisted

MariTool relies on technology to drive their organization. In just three
years, MariTool has grown from an eBay store into a high-volume
manufacturer and distributor of CNC machine tools. Their marketing,
sales, and support all revolve around their e-commerce website and email
communication. Tom Fetcho, MariTool Project Manager, says, “Even if we
were big enough to manage email in-house, we wouldn’t want to deal with
that.” Tom saw the drain of managing email internally while working for
a large company, “I saw the headaches they went through with email and
I’d much rather pay someone else to handle it.”

They were using their website host to service their email needs.
“Everything was hosted on a shared server and the service was
unreliable,” says Tom. When the servers overloaded, they couldn’t send
or receive email. The service also limited them to 5MB attachments,
which made sending large files impossible.

MariTool was let down again by the service when their servers were
blacklisted—meaning that the server’s IP address was added to a list of
addresses that providers use to identify spam. If your IP is
blacklisted, you can expect that most of your outgoing mail will end up
in your recipients’ spam folders. “No one checks the spam folder, so
they’d either think we didn’t respond or we’d have to ask them to check
their spam folder, which makes us appear unprofessional,” Tom recounts.

MariTool’s business relies heavily on email communication. Unreliable
service and improperly delivered email threatened their central
communication tool. They were ready to step up to a dedicated email
provider who could protect their professionalism, support their mobile
devices, and maintain email availability.

### Responsiveness makes the decision easy

Tom looked at several providers online before exploring Rackspace. “I
searched online and your service looked impressive,” he says. The price,
ease of integration, and uptime commitment caught his attention. The
tipping point for Tom was, “When we signed up, the iPhone™ was new. You
were the only provider we looked at who supported it.”

Before signing up online, they contacted Rackspace to get a feel for the
quality of support. With their previous provider, it could take up to
five minutes to get a response to a chat request, but with Rackspace,
they got a response “in seconds.” They were pleasantly surprised at how
quickly they got a response and signed up.

MariTool uses the Rackspace Email web-based interface and the free
mobile sync tool for iPhone. Their new Rackspace Email boxes not only
provide an ample 10GB of mailbox space, but also allow them to send and
receive up to 50MB attachments.

The transition went smoothly, Tom reports, “We had more difficulty
getting our former domain registrar to move our records than setting up
our email service.” The clean, familiar layout of the webmail interface
made it easy for his employees to start using it on day one, without
training.

### Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup> inspires loyalty

Over the years, MariTool has remained a loyal Rackspace customer. Along
the way, Tom has had many encounters with our [***Fanatical
Support***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) team.
Describing his latest experience with our support fanatics, he says, “In
all honesty, I have never had such a positive experience with a support
staff like I have had today.”

On that day, he called about a problem his friend was having with email.
His friend was not a customer, but when he got on the phone with Anarka
and Dustin in Support, he got the same thorough service to which he’s
grown accustomed. The friend’s email host had inadvertently deleted all
of his mailboxes. “He was dead in the water without email. Even though I
knew it wasn’t Rackspace’s issue to solve, I thought you might have some
suggestions.”

We were able to get his friend new email accounts immediately. The
support team went further and helped him troubleshoot issues getting his
MX records switched over from the previous provider. “I was expecting to
hear, ‘Good luck!’ but instead, I heard, ‘Let’s see what we can do’ and
you fixed something that wasn’t really your job to fix,” gushes Tom.

Since moving to Rackspace, Tom has seen the web interface evolve with
increasing functionality and expanded mailbox size. He now enjoys five
times the attachment size he had with his previous provider and is
confident that when he hits “Send,” his email won’t fall into the
recipient’s spam folder. “The reliability of the email speaks for
itself; it’s the level of support that puts Rackspace over the top.”
