---
permalink: rackspace-keeps-nickelodeons-kids-choice-awards-virtual-slime-flowing/
audit_date:
title: "Rackspace Keeps Nickelodeon's Kids' Choice Awards Virtual Slime Flowing"
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-09-28'
created_by: Karla Holmes
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.agencynet.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/rackspace-keeps-nickelodeons-kids-choice-awards-virtual-slime-flowing/agencynetlogo.png %}" width="305" height="62" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Digital Marketing

**CHALLENGE:** Planning for unexpected traffic from Nickelodeon's KCA
2011 viral Facebook "slime" app

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Dedicated
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/index.php), [Cloud
Servers<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/servers/),
[Cloud
Files<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/),
[HA
Configuration](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/services/proservices/criticalsites.php),
[Cloudkick<sup>&trade;</sup>
Monitoring](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/tools/applications/cloud-servers-partners/system-management/cloudkick/),
[RackConnect<sup>&trade;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions.php)

**OUTCOME:** Successful marketing for their client, Nickelodeon,
handling traffic with ease

**[Click here to download the full case
study.](http://c1776742.r42.cf0.rackcdn.com/downloads/pdfs/CaseStudy_AgencyNet.pdf)**

### Company Overview

AgencyNet, recognized as one of the “hottest digital agencies
around,”<sup>1</sup> is a one-stop shop for digital marketing—from brand
strategy, platform development, social media, to mobile apps and rich
media. They specialize in leveraging the power of digital to create
strategically focused and results-oriented marketing plans for clients
who desire to affect a change in consumer behavior.

This year, AgencyNet was tapped to develop a Facebook app for the
Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards (KCA) 2011. The app wasn’t just another
digital ballot. In addition to casting votes, the application gave fans
the power to virtually sling slime all over their friend’s photos and
their favorite websites. Fans earned slime by voting on the KCA’s,
interacting with polls and quizzes, campaigning for their favorite
nominee, and watching videos. For every engagement, fans watched their
“Slime Meter” grow as they accumulated more and more slime to sling,
ultimately contributing to Nick’s marketing objectives of the
initiative—increase voting for the KCAs.

With the high visibility of this app, AgencyNet knew they couldn’t
afford to let traffic spikes cause the app to go down. They turned to
Rackspace.

"We've hosted several initiatives at Rackspace in the past, but
Nickelodeon was, by far, the biggest one,” explained Matias Penela,
Director of Technology at AgencyNet. “To me, as the project’s technical
lead, it's like an insurance policy. As far as servers and reliability
go, I don't know of anyone better. Rackspace also has a state of the art
support system that we wanted to leverage in the event any unforeseen
technical issues arose. When there are a lot of eyes on a project like
this, we can't afford any mistakes."

### Preparing for Unexpected Traffic

The AgencyNet team had a rough estimate of how much traffic they could
expect, based on last year’s traffic patterns for Nickelodeon’s main
website, nick.com. They estimated that about 20% of that traffic would
come to their app. “But that was just an estimate,” Penela added. “We
needed an on-demand scalable solution that could handle more traffic in
a seamless manner, if needed.”

They shared their goals with the Rackspace team, as well as the details
regarding the integration required and the expected traffic numbers.
Rackspace engineers then customized several options for them to choose
from, and they worked together to select the best choice, which included
a combination of cloud and dedicated servers.

“We decided to start with eight Cloud Servers, some of which held the
CSS and Flash files—basically, all the content that gets served to the
users,” Penela explained. “We used redundant dedicated servers for our
databases running MySQL, with dual firewalls and dual load balancers to
ensure availability. The databases were important for tracking points
that users would accumulate from participating in the KCA voting
process, thus earning the ability to slime more of their Facebook
friends. The third part of the configuration was a storage solution to
hold all of that data."

Since traffic monitoring was going to be vital, AgencyNet chose
Cloudkick, Rackspace’s newly acquired cloud monitoring and management
service. With CloudKick, they could access all of their monitoring data,
so they could respond by spinning up more Cloud Servers into action if
they got more traffic than expected.

### App Goes Viral, and Faces Traffic with Ease

The app went live, and didn’t miss a beat, with 25 million earned
impressions.

When the app went live, everything worked as expected. The load was
evenly distributed throughout the eight web cloud servers and the robust
database servers did not even break a sweat. The site response times
where still lightning fast even in periods of high traffic.

“Rackspace was able to turn this solution around very quickly,” Penela
stated. “Due to the short turn around time, complexity and very tailored
nature of the environment, there’s no way we could have set it up
in-house with our own resources in that kind of time.”

“Working with Rackspace has been a pleasure since day one,” said Penela.
“Whether it was with sales, engineering, or cloud, everyone was on the
same page about what we were doing and they were helpful and proactive.”

Penela and his team were also impressed by Rackspace’s data centers.
“They are reliable and the equipment is top-notch. The engineers are
very knowledgeable and proactive. Sometimes, they educated me on
potential problems and solutions I didn't know existed. I know I can
pick up the phone or, even better, I'll get a call from my Rackspace
team.”

“While we have in-house capabilities to plan/design hosting
environments, we decided to work with the experts at Rackspace to
implement a state-of-the-art environment for Nickelodeon, allowing us to
focus on what we do best; developing and executing results-oriented
digital campaigns” Penela concluded.

### About Agencynet

AgencyNet is an award-winning digital agency that changes behavior
through creativity. Born-digital in1994, AgencyNet has been hailed by
Advertising Age as one of the “Hottest Digital Agencies Around,” for its
dynamic digital experiences across web, mobile and social platforms for
notable clients such as Bacardi, Nickelodeon, Allure Magazine, Ruby
Tuesday, Grey Goose, Island Def Jam and The Clinton Foundation. See how
AgencyNet embraces the game-changing power of digital at
www.agencynet.com.

*<sup>1</sup> <http://adage.com/article/digital/hottest-digital-agencies/121406/>*
