---
permalink: ranker-reduces-hosting-spend-by-almost-60-with-rackspace/
audit_date:
title: 'Ranker Reduces Hosting Spend by Almost 60% with Rackspace'
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-17'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.ranker.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/ranker-reduces-hosting-spend-by-almost-60-with-rackspace/Rankerlogo.jpg %}" width="375" height="225" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Ranker is a custom CMS for building lists and
aggregating opinions on just about anything.

**CHALLENGES:** Infrastructure consolidation and cost reduction.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Private
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private/) with [DevOps Support
services](http://www.rackspace.com/devops/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Reduction in hosting spend by almost 60%, with
improved ability to deploy and maintain the application stack.

### Leveraging DevOps Support and Adopting Rackspace Private Cloud

Ranker is a custom CMS for building lists and aggregating opinions on
just about anything. From the best movies of all time, best cars for
teenagers, best travel destinations, whatever it may be, Ranker’s goal
is to be the ‘Yelp for everything else.’ Premesh Purayil, Chief
Technology Officer for Ranker, explains, “We leverage a large data set
that gives us a repository of about 15 million things that you can make
a list about. Our technology aggregates other lists together to come up
with a consensus opinion, and because we’re able to see relationships
across many verticals, the data often produces interesting and
unexpected results.”

### Transitioning to Private Cloud

Rackspace Private Cloud is the end of a journey for Ranker that included
several other platforms, including public cloud with dedicated load
balancers. “When we were looking for a hosting provider, Rackspace
offered us ease of use and openness that we couldn’t find elsewhere. Our
recent adoption of private cloud is the ultimate verification of our
decision to choose Rackspace,” says Purayil.

As is true for many businesses, Ranker has a steady flow of traffic that
requires a substantial footprint to support. When servers are left on
permanently, the economics and performance associated with dedicated
hardware can become a smart decision. “We’re a top 300 US site, we have
about 10 million visitors a month producing 150 million page views, and
our production environment consists of approximately 30 servers which
are on 24 x 7. They’re always up, so paying for a dedicated amount of
CPU, memory, and disk space made sense to us,” says Purayil.

He continues, “One of the biggest draws in moving to private cloud was
the ability to have custom flavors, because even in the public cloud
space, although it’s effective, there is quite a bit of waste in terms
of CPU, RAM, or disk space. For example, many of our servers need RAM
and processing power, but not necessarily the disk space. With private
cloud, we can attribute resources exactly where they are needed.”

Other private cloud advantages Ranker enjoys include the platform’s
consistency, reliability and cost savings. Purayil explains, “If a
server became degraded in public cloud, we could spawn a new box and
point traffic to it but that was taking up a lot of my engineer’s time
because, when it does happen, we have to drop everything and fix it.
Private cloud is more consistent and reliable, and it turns out that it
also saves us money.”

To maximize cost savings, Ranker has chosen to consolidate its entire
platform onto private infrastructure. “We designed our private cloud to
fit all of our production, staging, and development environments, plus
some infrastructure left at our previous hosting company. After moving
our entire stack over to private cloud and consolidating our
infrastructure, we’ll be reducing our hosting spend by almost 60%,” says
Purayil.

### A Perfect Time to Employ Rackspace DevOps Support

Once the decision was made to restructure the hosting platform,
Rackspace support was there to suggest improvements along the way.
Without the advantage of automation, customers with complex environments
are less likely to realize the full financial benefit of using both
public and private cloud. Rackspace DevOps Support is available to help
customers adopt new deployment tools such as Chef without having to make
costly investments in new hires or employee training.

Purayil explains, “The Rackspace DevOps team closely examine our entire
production stack, and over the past couple of weeks we’ve been working
with them to make improvements as needed. Our team is no longer just a
few people, so we need to maintain our stack in a more intelligent and
reproducible way. The DevOps support team at Rackspace gives us the
tools that we need to achieve this.”

Ranker retains the ability to leverage public cloud in the future using
the same deployment automation tools, however, Ranker doesn’t anticipate
that this will be necessary. When asked if the flexibility of the public
cloud would be missed, Purayil responded, “I’ve been here four years and
our traffic has been very consistent. Our infrastructure is built well
in terms of what we’re able to cache, and we have designed the private
cloud resources so that we have room to grow quite a bit.”

“If a few servers in our infrastructure were to go down, that is really
no different than experiencing an unexpected traffic increase. You have
a set of servers that is taking a greater load than they were designed
to handle,” concludes Purayil.

Although the proper sizing of the platform is proving to be an art form,
the cost advantages for these customers have been well worth it.
