---
permalink: samba-tech-brings-better-online-video-to-latin-america/
audit_date:
title: Samba Tech Brings Better Online Video To Latin America
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-08-15'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://sambatech.com/en/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/samba-tech-brings-better-online-video-to-latin-america/SambaTech.png %}" width="238" height="189" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Samba Tech is a Brazilian company that uses a
pioneering online video platform to provide professional online video
solutions to major corporations and media groups in Brazil and
throughout Latin America, helping clients manage, distribute, analyze,
and monetize video content for computer, TV and mobile.

**CHALLENGES:** Samba Tech works for many of Brazil’s biggest companies
and media groups, including 4 of the 5 largest cable companies, and has
managed video content for such high-profile events as the 2010 Winter
Olympics. To ensure they deliver for their clients, Samba Tech needs
high-level technical support and SLAs from their own service providers.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Public
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/) and [Dedicated
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** The company has experienced continuous growth in
both physical and economic terms. They have opened offices in Argentina
to manage their growing Latin American presence, expanded their service
offerings, formed new partnerships, and received millions in investment
dollars. As the company continues to evolve and broaden its scope, Samba
Tech has consistently stayed at the forefront of Brazil’s emerging tech
scene.

**The Brazilian online video platform gives companies a better way to
manage and distribute video content on TV, computer, and mobile
screens.**

### Company overview

Samba Tech has gone through many changes since it was founded in 2004,
in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. In its first few years, the company
completely shifted its focus from mobile games to online video
distribution, and then developed proprietary technology that allowed it
to rapidly overtake competitors and meet the significant demand for this
service in the Brazilian market.

Over the past decade, the company has honed its position as Brazil’s
market leader for online video distribution, opened offices in Argentina
to coordinate operations all over Latin America, received millions in
investment dollars, and formed partnerships with international
institutions like MIT, which provides Samba Tech with a steady stream of
interns and advisers from the Sloane School of Management, through the
Global Entrepreneurship Lab (G-lab).

Throughout its evolution, Samba Tech has stayed focused on Brazil and on
meeting the shifting demands of this rapidly growing economy, while
Founder and CEO, Gustavo Caetano has stayed at the forefront of Brazil’s
nascent tech scene, regularly singled out for his influence on Brazilian
startup culture and for his drive to innovate in a country where the
cultural outlook and bureaucracy are often unfriendly to entrepreneurs.
Caetano has been voted Brazil’s best CEO and, more recently, was
recognized as one of MIT Technology Review’s “Top 10 Entrepreneurs under
35.” Samba Tech currently counts virtually all of Brazil’s biggest media
operations among its clients, using its online video platform to help
these media producers distribute their content across multiple channels,
from computer, to television, to mobile devices.

### Rackspace Client Since 2009

Samba Tech has been a Rackspace customer since 2009, using a hybrid
solution with both dedicated hosting and public cloud to run the
different types of applications they need to do business. As Fernando
Campos, former CTO of Samba Tech, explains, the hybrid solution suits
Samba Tech well because certain applications, like databases, require a
dedicated solution while the cloud is perfect for many other parts of
their system. “Being able to do both at the same time, with such a
powerful solution like the one you have here is the best,” he affirms.

### FANATICAL SUPPORT<sup>&reg;</sup>

Gustavo Caetano says before coming to Rackspace, Samba Tech tried other
infrastructure and solutions providers but they became frustrated with
the lack of support and SLAs. “We decided to move to Rackspace because
of the famous Fanatical Support,” he explains, and adds that Rackspace
was able to provide the kind of demanding SLAs required by the types of
clients they work with in Brazil.

When asked what [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/support/promise/)
means to him, Caetano says it’s about making the customer happy, and says that
the Rackspace team meets the mark at Samba Teach, frequently delivering
what he calls “good surprises” to his own team. Indeed, Caetano says he
has learned a lot from observing Rackspace and the way they carry out
the philosophy of ***Fanatical Support***, and that they seek to emulate it in
their own business practices. “We use Rackspace as an internal benchmark
of customer relationships and support,” he explains. Campos agrees,
saying that this goes a long way toward explaining why Samba Tech and
Rackspace are a good fit: “You treat us like we like to treat our
customers, so I think it’s a perfect match.”

### Distance Doesn’t Matter

Although Rackspace doesn’t have data centers in Brazil, or anywhere near
Samba Tech’s headquarters, Caetano says the distance hasn’t impacted
Rackspace ability to deliver on their promise of Fanatical Support.
“You’re very far from Brazil by distance,” he says, “but you’re very
close to our team on a daily basis. We work very closely with the
Rackspace support team and also with the technical team, and that’s
something that’s really important for us.
