---
permalink: spencer-weathers-seasonal-spikes-in-the-hybrid-cloud/
audit_date:
title: Spencer Weathers Seasonal Spikes in the Hybrid Cloud
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-09-17'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.spencersonline.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/spencer-weathers-seasonal-spikes-in-the-hybrid-cloud/spencer.png %}" width="392" height="166" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** Spencer Gifts LLC operates two brick-and-mortar
retailers, Spencer’s and Spirit Halloween.

**CHALLENGES:** Spencer needed to create a high-performance web presence
that would scale rapidly with 1,000x seasonal traffic growth.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Professional
Services](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise-cloud-solutions/professional-services/),
[Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
[Cloud Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/), [Private
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private/), [Public
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/public), [Hybrid
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) & [Load
Testing](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise-cloud-solutions/professional-services/#health-check-services)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** [Rackspace Hybrid
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) allows Spencer to keep
page-load times down during peak traffic, helping online sales to grow
30 to 40 percent a year.

### Rackspace Helps Spencer Gifts to Scale Rapidly without Sacrificing Performance or Security

Since its origins as a mail-order catalog more than 60 years ago,
Spencer Gifts has emerged as a leader in novelty retail. Including
mall-based retailer Spencer’s and seasonal outlet Spirit Halloween,
Spencer Gifts operates more than 1,600 brick-and-mortar locations in
North America.

As it expanded into ecommerce, Spencer Gifts needed a solution that
would be able to withstand the enormous traffic fluctuations inherent in
seasonal retail. Lacking in-house infrastructure expertise, Spencer
Gifts turned to [Rackspace Professional
Services](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise-cloud-solutions/professional-services/),
who assessed the company’s unique needs and provided a tailored [hybrid
hosting solution](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) that could
scale rapidly without sacrificing security or performance, resulting in
30 to 40 percent growth in online sales each year.

### Handling Rapid Traffic Growth

While most online retailers expect four to five times as much traffic
during the annual holiday season, Spirit Halloween traffic grows
anywhere between 100 to 1,000 times. This massive amount of short-term
growth is perfectly suited to the flexibility and cost effectiveness
offered by a Rackspace Hybrid Cloud solution.

Spencer Gifts leverages both
[dedicated](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/)
and [cloud servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/) to provide
its customers with a high-performance website year-round. Vitale
explains, “We keep our core systems on our private environment, but when
we want to expand in season, it’s in the cloud. That’s the only way to
go when you need to bring that much capacity online that fast. The cloud
allows us to quickly expand our systems so that we can service our
customers without experiencing a slowdown on the site.”

“This approach really appears to be working for us as we look at the
analytics for site speed of our sales versus our competitors’,” he says.
“We’re only seeing about a 100% increase in page-load times, whereas our
competitors are seeing increases of 300 to 400 percent. Our hybrid
infrastructure allows us to provide the best experience to our
consumers, which allows our online business to grow approximately 30 to
40 percent a year.”

### Hybird Cloud Enhances Security and Availability of Customer Data

Data security is another key consideration for any ecommerce site, and
using
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/hosting_solutions/hybrid_hosting/rackconnect/)
to connect Cloud Servers with dedicated infrastructure allows Spencer
Gifts to store its data safely. “We have our own private infrastructure
on hosted servers,” says Vitale. “We use that to keep all of the data
for our customers secure.”

Sensitive information is stored on dedicated servers attached to SAN and
DAS storage amounting to nearly 5TB. This setup allows Spencer to
address their [PCI compliance
requirements](http://www.rackspace.com/ecommerce-hosting/pci/) and
provides a baseline capacity for application processing. The company
also runs portions of its application on a VMware-virtualized private
cloud environment, allowing it the flexibility to increase the backend
capacity of its system during the peak buying season. Cloud Servers
handle the rest.

High availability is also a major factor in ecommerce sales, as
competitors’ sites are only a click away. “Throughout our
infrastructure, everything is fully redundant—there isn’t a system in
our infrastructure that we don’t have a duplicate of, from firewalls and
load balancers to servers and hypervisors. It’s the same in the cloud;
everything we spin up in the cloud is redundant. This ensures our
environment is always available, which is critical to us and any other
online retailer,” explains Vitale.

### Maximum Service, Minimum Headcount

Choosing Rackspace Hybrid Cloud has allowed Spencer Gifts to save costs
on IT staff. “We have the [Intensive<sup>&reg;</sup>
support](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/support/servicelevels/intensivesla/)
package,” says Vitale. “That package comes with a team who helps us
manage our technology. Leveraging the folks at Rackspace allows me to
provide a level of technical expertise without having an army of
technology people within the company.”

“[***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/),
to me, is about being able to pick up the phone, send a text, or send an
email to my account rep or primary tech and know I’ll get a response
within minutes,” Vitale says. “When there’s problem, I know that
somebody is on it and will stay on it until it’s resolved, then report
back to me so that I have an understanding of what’s happening in my
infrastructure. It’s as if I had an internal IT team.”

Vitale sees Rackspace as vital to the success of Spencer’s ecommerce
deployment. “Rackspace is providing us with the products, services, and
technology that we need not only to continue growing, but to grow with
knowledge and expertise.”
