---
permalink: sumall-analytics-tool-discovers-a-fast-growth-strategy-in-a-cutting-edge-cloud/
audit_date:
title: SumAll Analytics Tool Discovers a Fast Growth Strategy in a Cutting-Edge Cloud
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2014-07-22'
created_by: Margie Bogart
last_modified_date: '2017-03-31'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="https://sumall.com">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/sumall-analytics-tool-discovers-a-fast-growth-strategy-in-a-cutting-edge-cloud/sumall-1.png %}" width="391" height="109" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS:** SumAll is a free analytics tool that lets
people discern insights regarding sales, visitor behavior, followers and
more, from platforms such as eBay, Facebook, Google+ and PayPal.

**CHALLENGES:** Serving more than 200,000 current users without delays,
and maintaining a cutting-edge, reliable platform that supports the
firm’s rapidly expanding customer base.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:**
[Dedicated](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers/)
and [Cloud Servers with Managed Service
Level](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/servers/), [Cloud
Files](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/files/?cm_mmc=PPCCA-_-Google-_-broad-_-online+storage+cloud),
[Cloud Load Balancers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/load-balancing/)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Rackspace has helped SumAll provide a consistently
high-performing customer experience which has reduced onboarding from
hours to a few minutes, powering site performance and eliminating delays
based on past, sub-optimal cloud processes.

### Company Overview

Manhattan-based SumAll is a free analytics tool that lets people link
Google Analytics, Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Instagram, Google and many
other services for a comprehensive overview of their digital presence.
Founded in 2011, the company provides data analytics for customers
ranging from small businesses to large enterprise-level players. With
around 200,000 users today, the company counts Starbucks, Sony, HBO,
Pandora, and Harvard among its customers. SumAll not only lets users
connect all their data, it can even help a user determine the most
opportune times to send out posts to various platforms.

“We started out with getting a couple of customers a day, and now we’re
doing a thousand a day,” explains Dane Atkinson, SumAll CEO. “Customers
use us 10 times more than they use Google Analytics. We have frightening
engagement compared to what you would see in other tools of our nature;
almost social engagement. And we know we’re actually changing people’s
lives.”

SumAll began on Amazon, with ecommerce merchants as the client base. In
the digital space, large numbers of site visitors browse offerings
without ever making a purchase. By making simple and often subtle
structural site revisions, etailers can transform more visitors into
paying customers.

“We started with Shopify and Magento and those kinds of partners, and
continued to add broader and broader data streams but we soon hit a
breaking point in the business where we were encountering delays trying
to onboard hundreds of customers a day.”

SumAll then began asking aggressive questions because it knew that the
business model was growing really fast. “Switching to Rackspace and
ObjectRocket was like night and day,” says Atkinson. “Rackspace was
honest and direct, and dealt with us very well. From a technology
standpoint the move was fairly seamless, and the performance is so much
more powerful.”

### The Rackspace Performace Cloud Delivers

Using a Rackspace architecture consisting of dedicated database servers
connected to multiple cloud web servers, SumAll is delivering data
visualization tools and technology to a customer base that is growing at
an astonishing rate. Users need to be able to onboard fast, gain quick,
easy access and experience consistent performance with no delays.

“Rackspace has pretty much been persistently brilliant all the way
through. It’s allowed us to give that millisecond speed to our
customers, which is, in this climate, what everyone wants.”

Designed to be both lightning fast and powerful enough to handle the
company’s fast growing user base, SumAll relies on Rackspace Performance
Cloud Servers to ensure that its offerings are dynamic and reliable for
use with all sorts of different data sets.

SumAll is able to keep current and cutting-edge with its technology
backbone, minimizing its costs, raising its operational efficiency, and
helping its customers increase revenue and conversion rates. “It
\[reduces\] that hour onboarding time for a customer back down to
seconds, which is where they want to be, and where we need to be as a
business,” says Atkinson.

ObjectRocket and Rackspace have been top notch in support, according to
SumAll. “We have an intimate relationship and it’s not like talking to a
gigantic black box,” says Atkinson. “Scalability with ObjectRocket means
we actually hit our milestones. They’ve grown with us as fast as we can,
and they’ve made this process seamless. So beforehand we were onboarding
clusters day in and day out, that’s all been offboarded to Rackspace,
and it’s just invisible success.”

Security is critical as well, with SumAll containing data for almost a
quarter-million businesses. “With every piece of information that sits
in the cloud, we must make sure that we are in an environment that is
secure and has a large brand behind it,” says Atkinson. “We’ve not had
disruptions or any threats across our data. It’s very good to know that
we’re in the right hands.”

### Specializing in the Cutting Edge

Atkinson added that SumAll is looking to broaden its work with Rackspace
“in pretty much any pathway we can, which just as a note is impossible
thing to do in Amazon. Amazon has blueprint one through six, and that’s
it.”

“With Rackspace even most recently we’ve been using something called
BitYota, which is the high-end query system that we can actually try to
pull out answers for what’s happening in our data cloud, and Rackspace
has been exploring with them and working very diligently to find the
right fit between our technologies, but they’ve also expanded their view
and figure out different things that we might be able to enable our
queries and our needs, and following our research as well as potentially
our ability to engage with Rackspace,” says Atkinson.

“We’re really happy to work with specialists who look towards the future
together, and work with us to solve problems that everybody will be
facing,” says Atkinson. “It’s an amazing thing to find somebody else at
that edge; there’s not very many of us there and it makes us feel more
possible, it makes us our dream seem real.”

“If you’re a startup, Amazon is probably the fast way to self-provision
your prototype and get yourself into the cloud and get things operating.
But once you get your business to any kind of scale, you need a partner
that helps you manage your bigger growth, and has specialization that’s
not just commodity,” says Atkinson. “[With Rackspace] not only will
you get the same performance multiplying, but you’ll get advice and
counseling and a whole portion of your business just taken care of.”

“We need somebody who can solve our hard problems — people who can
figure out how to deliver terabytes of information in milliseconds,”
concludes Atkinson. “We need people who are smart and able to figure out
the next step, not the stuff that’s existed for 20 years. Thankfully,
Rackspace is the specialist we need. We need that cutting edge and
you’re it.”
