---
permalink: telerik-shows-the-way-to-the-future-of-application-development/
audit_date:
title: Telerik Shows the Way to the Future of Application Development
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2015-02-03'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-04-03'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.telerik.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/telerik-shows-the-way-to-the-future-of-application-development/Telerik.png %}" width="350" height="138" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:**
Market-leading creator of tools and technologies to address the entire
application development lifecycle.

**CHALLENGES:** Design industry-leading application development
solutions, addressing open modular development stack and mobile platform
at the enterprise level.

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Rackspace Private
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private), [Managed
Colocation](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/managed_colocation),
[RackConnect<sup>&reg;</sup>](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/rackconnect)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Up to a 40-percent reduction in cost, achieved
through the ability to provision on-demand and to speed deployment.

**Relying on Rackspace, Telerik takes its place as an app innovation
leader worldwide.**

### Company overview

Dedicated to accelerating productivity and improving creativity among
its developer clientele, Telerik enables users to build compelling apps
suited to all platforms. Founded in 2002 and now a division of
Massachusetts-based Progress Software Corporation, the company combines
industry-leading UI tools with cloud services to simplify and shorten
development time. Telerik serves 90% of the Fortune 500 and more than
60,000 organizations worldwide including NASA, Microsoft, VistaPrint,
CBRE, the UK Parliament — as well as academic institutions, governments
and more.

Maintaining a leadership position requires a specific infrastructure
composed of dedicated, private and public cloud hosting solutions —
using the advantages of each to build a solution that perfectly meets
the needs of Telerik and its developers. To achieve this, Telerik works
with Rackspace.

### Delivering Enterprise-Level Hybrid Services

It’s no small feat to incorporate private and public cloud, dedicated
networking, colocation, and intensive service offerings — all while
ensuring users the freedom to maintain high levels of internal control.
But the decision-makers at Telerik were confident that Rackspace could
address the challenge of delivering a made-to-order, hybrid set of
services to meet its needs.

Telerik is also a huge supporter of the [OpenStack<sup>&reg;</sup>
community](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/openstack). The company has
invested heavily in OpenStack, and hosts its own local user groups.
Telerik believes strongly, as Rackspace does, that OpenStack is the
leading facilitator of cloud innovation. This is another reason why
Rackspace was the obvious choice for Telerik.

“We have worked with Rackspace for a while, we know each other well and
we are confident they are the right service provider for us,” said
Simeon Stoychev, Chief Information Officer at Telerik. “But more than
that, as OpenStack is key to our success, working with one of the
founders was an obvious benefit.”

### Linking Growth And Continued Success

Making the lives of developers easier means finding the right balance
between high security, control, flexibility and simplicity. Their work
processes must become faster, more efficient, more reliable and
cost-effective. RackConnect spans the entire Telerik infrastructure,
seamlessly linking private, public and dedicated resources.

By combining dedicated networking and public cloud scalability, Telerik
and Rackspace are able to speed the deployment of resources and achieve
on-demand provisioning. Users gain increased agility, greater levels of
control and customization, and the security afforded by the private
cloud.

“By handpicking the best of Rackspace and combining it as one platform,
we break down technical barriers and achieve the improved performance we
were looking for,” said Stoychev. Automation was also a key requirement,
he said. “We are now able to automatically configure every aspect of our
infrastructure. By combining a mixture of services, we have not only
improved our offering but have also generated real costs savings.”

Telerik was recently named as a “Visionary” in the 2014 Gartner Magic
Quadrant for Mobile Application Development Platforms and it plans to
build on its success by expanding its global footprint.

“By investing in OpenStack and working with Rackspace, we can easily
expand our global footprint,” Stoychev explains. “We have all of our
workloads set up in the way that we need them and in the way that works
best for our clients. We have a model that can be easily replicated as
we expand into new territories.”
