---
permalink:usourceit-reduces-clients-it-costs-by-50-percent/
audit_date:
title: "USourceIT Reduces Client's IT Costs by 50 Percent"
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-04-16'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-04-03'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.usourceit.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/usourceit-reduces-clients-it-costs-by-50-percent/usourceit.png %}" width="287" height="200" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** IT sourcing partner for commercial real estate
advisory firm

**CHALLENGES:** Developing an on-site/off-shore network to deliver more
automation to brokers and reduce costs

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** Dedicated hosting

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Reduced annual IT costs by over $500,000 and
improved service levels to its network of brokers.

### Company overview

Sperry Van Ness (SVN), in Irvine, California, is one of the nation’s top
20 commercial real estate advisory firms with a nationwide network of
broker agents. SVN was faced with meeting the growing IT demands of a
burgeoning nationwide network of brokers. Over the last several years,
SVN’s broker network sustained astounding growth from 100 to more than
1,500 brokers and support staff. SVN needed to improve its IT service
levels and control costs at the same time.

SVN turned to USourceIT and Rackspace Hosting to develop an
on-site/off-shore network to deliver more automation to brokers and
reduce costs. Rackspace was selected as the hosting partner, along with
two vendors based in India, to manage the SVN applications and Remote
Infrastructure Management (RIM). As a result, SVN reduced its monthly IT
costs by nearly 50 percent, and dramatically improved service levels to
its network of brokers.

### Situation

Just prior to the decline of the national real estate market, USourceIT,
a Cerritos, California-based start-up provider of outsourced IT
solutions, was contacted by a commercial real estate company that was
trapped in a Catch 22 of sorts.

Sperry Van Ness, a real estate investment and management advisor in
Irvine, California, needed to rein in IT costs that had escalated out of
control and disproportionate to the growth in the number of users.
Meanwhile, higher service levels were demanded by an exploding network
of users, which had grown from 100 to 1,500. As the real estate market
slowed, these agents needed more IT services to compete and sell SVN
property listings in a declining market.

SVN markets national properties to more than 100,000 commercial real
estate brokers and investors. To support its brokers, SVN provides a
complete turn-key service of e-mail and online publishing services
through proprietary applications on dedicated servers. SVN’s IT services
were managed offsite through a small consulting firm. “SVN was under
severe pressure to improve the service levels of an outdated and
overtaxed environment,” said SVN CIO Norm Williams. “At the same time,
the market conditions became unfavorable and management needed to look
at ways to offload the costs of supporting and maintaining the
environment.”

USourceIT specializes in helping small- to medium-sized businesses solve
their IT problems, matching their needs with outsourced experts. Led by
Chairman and Vice President Subbu Murthy, a 25-year IT veteran and
former CIO, USourceIT provides SMBs with services that include e-mail
hosting, server hosting, ERP customization, e-commerce applications and
data warehousing.

SVN asked USourceIT to completely renovate the firm’s IT infrastructure.
USourceIT convinced SVN to consider an on-site/off-shore network to help
reduce costs and deliver more automation to brokers. If their plan
worked, SVN would significantly reduce their IT costs and still be able
to enhance the services their brokers needed to sell more commercial
real estate.

### Solution

The first step for USourceIT was to transfer the domain expertise. Its
Source OnDemand technology helped select pre-credentialed service
providers for programming and maintenance services to SVN. Within four
weeks, a service provider was brought online to help SVN, which helped
to immediately reduce application costs.

However, SVN was still burdened with older hardware and increased
demands from their clients. USourceIT spent several weeks engaging SVN
to understand their technology needs and roadmaps. From there, the team
recommended a transition plan that would be led by an IT specialist with
Rackspace as the hosting partner.

In November 2008, USourceIT chose [Rackspace
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/), along with a pre-credentialed
off-shore vendor who provided RIM services. USourceIT was then able to
help SVN develop the strong infrastructure required to meet the needs of
more than 1,500 SVN real estate brokers and staff.

Rackspace provided a hosted management solution that included eight
[dedicated
servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
18 virtual machines, and custom configurations designed specifically to
support SVN’s applications that included e-mail, proprietary property
listing software and a website for brokers. Rackspace designed the SVN
configuration to replace the firm’s colocation-based servers and
supported the solution with a dedicated team 24x7x365. Despite the
round-the-clock support and personal touch, the Rackspace solution
resulted in significantly lower cost than their previous server model.

Murthy said he was attracted to Rackspace not only for its price and
performance, but for the service levels that would allow USourceIT’s
team to focus on SVN’s critical applications. Rackspace’s award-winning
[***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)
was a key component in the decision to select them as the hosting
provider, as service was an important concern for SVN. “We were first
attracted to Rackspace because we knew we could offload day-to-day
support and maintenance of the SVN servers and refocus our people
resources on improving the firm’s proprietary applications and their
infrastructure support,” said Murthy. “The other reason we selected
Rackspace as our hosting partner was because of their reputation for
support and their ability to quickly customize our hosting configuration
to fit the needs of SVN’s in-house applications. Their service has been
phenomenal.”

Murthy said through his previous experiences with other hosting
providers, he would receive four or five solution alternatives. But the
solution that Rackspace provided was highly customized for SVN’s needs.
“We looked at several other vendors but this level of flexibility and
support is what helped us choose Rackspace,” he said. “Nobody came close
to Rackspace in this regard.”

### Benefits

With USourceIT’s services, its outsourced team of professionals and
Rackspace hosting services, SVN estimates that its annual IT cost
savings is well over \$500,000, while improving SLAs in the process.
This was a win for users and a win for SVN with partners that can
support the continued growth of the organization in the coming years.

The new outsourced solutions and partnership with Rackspace is now
providing SVN the tools they need to keep IT costs down and focus on the
critical aspects of their business, which is giving their member brokers
the tools they need to compete in a down economy.

For Murthy, Rackspace played a key role in this success by removing the
worry of server management and allowing his team to focus on SVN’s
applications. “We no longer had to worry about the uptime of servers,”
said Murthy. “We didn’t have to worry about operation systems or patch
updates. Plus, the Rackspace solution was very cost effective. The other
advantage with Rackspace was that we could easily engage their experts
in the early stages of the contracting to ensure that we had designs
that met our customer requirements.”
