---
permalink: welcome-to-yorkshire-creates-innovative-marketing-and-pr-campaigns-in-the-united-kingdo/
audit_date:
title: Welcome To Yorkshire Creates Innovative Marketing and PR Campaigns in the United Kingdom's Largest County
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2015-02-04'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-04-03'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.yorkshire.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/welcome-to-yorkshire-creates-innovative-marketing-and-pr-campaigns-in-the-united-kingdo/welcometoyorkshire.jpg %}" />
</a>

**Customer’s Business:**
Welcome to Yorkshire is a not-for-profit, destination management
organisation focussed on creating a dynamic view of the UK’s largest
county via innovative marketing and PR campaigns.

**Challenges:** Welcome to Yorkshire was commissioned by Le Tour de
France Grand Départ with building a website which required a robust,
highly scalable and resilient infrastructure that could support large
file sizes, large numbers of page views and fast download speeds.

**Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> Solution:** [Rackspace Managed Cloud
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud), [Dedicated
Servers](http://www.rackspace.com/managed-hosting/dedicated-servers)

**Business Outcome:** Rackspace and its [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/about/) allowed Welcome to
Yorkshire to deliver the Grand Départ website on time and on budget,
with the site attracting in excess of 2.5 million page views from
391,000 users, with an average of 1.3 million on each day of the race,
in over 190 countries.

**Partnering with Rackspace achieves award-winning coverage of Le Tour
de France Grand Départ.**

### Company overview

Welcome to Yorkshire is a not-for-profit, destination management
organisation focussed on creating a dynamic view of the UK’s largest
county via innovative marketing and PR campaigns. Founded in 2009,
Welcome to Yorkshire’s team has achieved fantastic results, placing
Yorkshire firmly on the map and winning a number of World Travel Awards
for its marketing campaigns.

In July 2014 Welcome to Yorkshire delivered the Tour de France Grand
Départ. Building an official website
[www.letouryorkshire.com](http://www.letouryorkshire.com), they needed
to ensure it was capable of delivering media rich interactive content to
huge numbers of visitors all over the world. The site required a robust,
highly scalable and resilient infrastructure that could support large
file sizes, large numbers of page views and fast download speeds.

### Meeting High Expectations

Welcome to Yorkshire set themselves high expectations for the success of
their campaign. As successful marketers, they know that content is king
when it comes to delivering a successful web campaign. They needed to
ensure their site was capable of delivering media-rich, interactive
content in an easy-to-view and highly engaging format. With estimations
of visitors in the millions, every visitor, no matter what device they
were using or what country they were in, needed to receive the same
experience.

To make their vision a reality, Welcome to Yorkshire needed the site to
be backed up with an infrastructure that was fit for purpose, delivering
high availability, high scalability and high reliability.

Pete Wilson, Head of Digital at Welcome to Yorkshire explains, “We knew
that moving into cloud offered us the scalable solution required to
handle such large volumes of traffic over a short period of time. We
were given a tight deadline for this project, so the cloud also offered
us the shortest lead time, quickest and most simple set up without
compromising on server control and configuration. We were confident
right from the start that the Rackspace Managed Cloud was the best
choice in terms of delivering what we needed quickly and seamlessly.”

Welcome to Yorkshire made the decision to work with Rackspace for this
campaign based on their experience of hosting their primary website on
Rackspace dedicated servers over the past several years.

### Coping With Demand & Cost Efficiency – A Huge Success

The Welcome to Yorkshire official Grand Départ website was a huge
success and saw some incredible global traffic. Over the course of the
race, which took place on 5-6th July 2014, the site attracted in excess
of 2.5 million page views from 391,000 users, with an average of 1.3
million on each day of the race. The site handled up to 5,000 concurrent
users at any one time from over 190 countries.

“The Rackspace Managed Cloud servers more than coped with the traffic
demands over the Tour de France race weekend,” said Wilson. “We could
not be more delighted. The website was so successful in fact that it has
since been sighted in a recent post-race report as key in the delivery
and dissemination of information to the public before, during and after
the race.” And, Rackspace Fanatical Support was also a key success
factor in delivery. “Both during the race week and before, Rackspace
provided round the clock expert knowledge and support, no problem or
query was too much trouble for them.”

As a not-for-profit organisation, every penny counts for Welcome to
Yorkshire. The flexibility of the managed cloud servers also played a
huge part in keeping the campaign cost efficient. The ability to spin
capacity up and down to meet demand helped Welcome to Yorkshire keep
costs under control.

“We set budget of £10,000 to cover server costs,” said Wilson. “Due to
the flexibility and instant scalability of the managed cloud servers,
and Rackspace utility billing we were able to match resource with demand
and ensure that not only could the site cope when traffic was at its
peak , but also that we did not incur any idle infrastructure costs the
rest of the time. The great news was that we actually came in under
budget.”

### A Partnership For The Future

Welcome to Yorkshire have made good on their promise to make sure the
Grand Départ 2014 was the grandest ever. The site has won numerous
awards, and as part of the legacy of the Tour de France Grand Départ,
Welcome to Yorkshire has established, and had approved by the UCI, a
three day race not only for May next year, but for four more years after
that. The race will cover areas of Yorkshire not covered by this year’s
race.

“We have a great footprint in place now that we can only improve upon
over the next five years,” concludes Wilson. “Based on the success
achieved with Rackspace we will continue working with them to scope out
our server requirements going forward.”
