---
permalink: workshoplive-bands-with-rackspace-to-amp-online-music-education/
audit_date:
title: "WorkshopLive 'Bands' with Rackspace to 'Amp' Online Music Education"
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-12-03'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-04-03'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Use Cases
product_url: use-cases
---

<a href="http://www.pearl.com/">
   <img src="{% asset_path use-cases/workshoplive-bands-with-rackspace-to-amp-online-music-education/workshoplive.png %}" width="249" height="49" />
</a>

**CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS:** Online music education

**CHALLENGES:** Overcoming service issues with their previous SaaS
application provider

**RACKSPACE<sup>&reg;</sup> SOLUTION:** [Managed
hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/),
[Content Delivery
Network](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/public/files/technology/?page=cdn)

**BUSINESS OUTCOME:** Ability to develop applications, support large
databases, and host large media files without worrying about
infrastructure.

### Company Overview

WorkshopLive produces the most dynamic and engaging music instruction
content on the web today. Its patent-pending technology delivers the
first truly interactive learning experience of its type, with visual and
auditory elements that change to suit the preferences and abilities of
the student. WorkshopLive incorporates more than 20 years of experience
in music education and has created thousands of lessons in all styles of
music. The privately funded company is based in Pittsfield, Mass.

### Situation

When it comes to online music instruction, there really is no one who
comes close to offering what WorkshopLive does. Building on more than 20
years of music instruction experience, the creators of WorkshopLive
found a way to take product knowledge to the Internet. By breaking into
the online medium, they have created a way to alleviate time constraints
in today's fast-paced world, where time is a luxury.

Since their site launched on Dec. 27, 2005, they have added more than
10,000 high-quality videos and exercises that include 1,800 lessons
containing very advanced interactive graphics with tabs and notations.

"Most other sites follow the talking head model where the user is forced
to try and learn from watching a video alone," says Marilyn Hoeffner,
vice president of IT/IS, WorkshopLive. "We know that is not practical.
You need to be able to see and interact with an illustration of the
lesson exercise. With our player, you can control the tempo, show note
names, fingerings or scale degrees. You can even select a selection of
music and loop it over and over at a slower speed."

WorkshopLive has two ways to pay for learning guitar, bass, drums or
keyboard through this player. If you're just looking for a little
instruction, you can purchase individual lessons, songs or courses at a
flat, one-time rate. For the more dedicated learner, unlimited access
can be purchased though monthly, quarterly or yearly subscriptions.

Either way allows access to your choice of an individual song, lesson or
course, which are divided into four skill levels for each instrument.
There are seven styles of songs to choose from: acoustic, blues,
country, folk, holiday, jazz, and rock, with a variety of songs and
artists in each category. They are the only online music education site
that has licensed music from popular bands and singers.

More than two years of planning and development went into building the
interactive player which contains the entire framework that presents the
lessons. WorkshopLive knew how important uptime would be to the success
of their online venture, so they came to Rackspace for a strong and
reliable infrastructure.

### Solution

During the two-year development, WorkshopLive housed their
infrastructure with the developer of their software. In October of 2005,
they decided to find a managed hosting specialist after experiencing
several service problems with their developer.

"Service is what I wanted most," says Hoeffner. "I just couldn't be
worrying about managed hosting while at the same time developing and
running the software. I needed to be problem-free on the infrastructure
side. We couldn't handle any interruption to our site, so we decided to
go with the company that had the best reputation."

WorkshopLive decided Rackspace's reputation for [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)
best fit what they were looking for. "What I like about Rackspace is they are
not just a hosting company; they are a service company," says Hoeffner.
"Many companies boast great service, but Rackspace backs it up with
Fanatical Support and a large, reliable network."

Hoeffner goes on to describe the transition from their developer to
their servers at Rackspace as very smooth. She applauds Rackspace's
excellent service level and support, working around the clock, in
getting their infrastructure up and running.

WorkshopLive relies on Rackspace expertise to keep their application and
databases available 24x7. While WorkshopLive streams and pushes their
video from content network providers such as Akamai and Vital Stream,
without Rackspace rock-solid infrastructure providing all the
information about the lessons, such as the application data, graphic
assets and animation files, their video product would be no different
than their competitors.

### Benefits

Hoeffner credits part of WorkshopLive's continued growth and success on
Rackspace and its Fanatical Support promise. She knows that any
web-based business must be available 24x7 or your customers and sales
will suffer.

"Typically, any time we have had a problem, question or concern, we can
absolutely, 100-percent know that the issue will be addressed and solved
quickly," exclaims Hoeffner. "Any issues we've had have been on our side
and Rackspace has been excellent at getting into our configuration,
finding out what's wrong, and getting it resolved promptly. To me,
that's ***Fanatical Support***."

She also enjoys having that knowledge and expertise just a phone call
away. "The relationship my IT staff and I have with Rackspace is
excellent. By far it is well above and beyond anything I could have
hoped for," she says. "The level of support and expertise they have is
outstanding. Any time we need support or have a problem, not only are
they easily accessible, but the actual support is very, very good."

WorkshopLive has recently been hard at work developing their new
software application, WorkshopLive 3.0, which is now live on their
website. Hoeffner described the project as basically rewriting the
entire application and that process went by rather fast without having
to worry about their infrastructure.

"My IT department is structured around application development and
database support so we haven't had time to worry about our hardware
needs, especially with [WorkshopLive] 3.0 development," says Hoeffner.
"That's where a dependable partner like Rackspace comes in very handy.
At this point I wouldn't consider moving from Rackspace. When you have
an advanced [software-as-a-service
application](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise_hosting/saas/) like
ours, it's a good piece of mind knowing that it's in good hands."
