---
permalink: outsourcing-it-a-matter-of-trust/
audit_date:
title: 'Outsourcing IT: A Matter of Trust'
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2012-12-19'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-14'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

### Introduction

With the rising cost of energy and the increasing complexity of the
application landscape, the economics of outsourcing some or all of your
IT are compelling. When patches, upgrades, and administration are out of
IT’s hair, the brightest minds in your organization can spend more time
innovating and less time maintaining. Still, there are risks. You’ve
been managing your entire IT estate for years. Your computing
infrastructure is absolutely critical to everything you do. It’s
difficult to imagine relinquishing control. What about security? What
kind of support can you expect? Who is really on the other end of the
line?

At Rackspace, we’ve built our culture and tool set specifically to
support managed hosting in the cloud. We back up our hosting with
[***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/).
Let’s review some common concerns about outsourcing IT to help you
understand why managed cloud hosting from Rackspace can help you put
those concerns to rest.

### The Risks of Outsourcing IT

Outsourcing has certainly become more common over the years, but there
is plenty to keep a CIO awake at night. Some of the primary risks of
outsourcing IT include:

**Security**. Fundamentally, outsourcing IT means giving up control of
some substantial portion of your IT infrastructure. How does the
outsourcing provider handle security? How seriously will they take the
security of your IT infrastructure?

**Lack of operating experience.** If your provider is new to the
business, there may be risks they haven’t fully come to appreciate, such
as hardware or network failure or poorly designed, off- the-shelf
management software. How does the outsourcing provider handle problems
and can they provide any evidence or references of how they handled
issues in the past?

**Financial insecurity.** A strong financial base is not a given. A
start-up or poorly financed business could shut the lights off
overnight, leaving you in the dark.

**Non-responsiveness.** When a critical business asset is on the line,
you don’t want to be stuck waiting on the line to find out what’s going
on. Some providers keep you waiting and don’t seem to have complete
information when you finally get through. You could wind up explaining
things again and again.

**Inflexibility.** Many outsourcing providers focus on their own
business model rather than on serving you. The result is inflexible
policies that constrain your ability to grow.

**Fuzzy service-level agreements (SLAs).** If you need a translator to
understand your service agreement, you’re going to have a problem
enforcing the SLA if the provider doesn’t meet expectations. Some
vendors include confusing clauses that make it difficult to get credit
if SLAs aren’t met.

**No growth potential.** If your business needs to add capacity quickly,
and your vendor can’t scale, you will lose valuable time to market and
potentially miss opportunities.

**Vendor lock-in.** As a way of offering “one-stop shopping,” some
vendors will try to lock you into a given set of hardware, software, or
architecture protocols. This tends to raise cost by limiting choice,
thinning the value proposition of outsourcing itself.

### A Checklist for Outsourcing IT

When considering an IT outsourcing vendor, review this checklist. The
provider you select should address all of these points.

<img src="{% asset_path ProfessionalServices/outsourcing-it-a-matter-of-trust/rro_1.png %}" />

**Responsiveness.** In any relationship, people show their true colors
when things go south. You want to make sure that your problems get the
attention they deserve. That’s not always something that is obvious in
the contract, but it should be obvious in all your interactions with the
provider.

**Security, with a helping of transparency.** Security is a prime
concern of every enterprise. Verify that the provider has both physical
and logical security infrastructure in place. Ensure that the provider
follows international security standards such as ISO 27001. Find out
exactly how your systems will be protected, and verify that the approach
meets your standards.

**Operational experience.** Is the provider new to the market? Were they
in some other business last year? Be sure that they have a track record
of resolving outsourced IT problems and solid relationships with
industry partners, such as hardware and software vendors and security
companies. Make sure there is a roadmap for growth, and a clear
escalation path if things go wrong. It’s worth asking, “Can this
provider do better than we can on our own?

**Financial strength.** Your provider needs to have the financial
capability to purchase robust equipment and software, hire adequate
personnel, and stay afloat and provide service continuity. “Mom and pop”
shops are charming on Main Street, but not when your critical data is on
the line.

**Watertight, transparent SLAs.** A clearly written contract in English,
with no hidden charges or agendas, is a requirement. The SLA should
clearly put the customer first.

**Redundancy.** When your mission-critical applications are running
elsewhere, you want to make sure that you replicate them in at least one
other location—preferably not in the same region, where a catastrophic
incident could take out the whole operation. There is no one size fits
all geographic redundancy solution. Make sure your provider has the
ability to design and deliver services to you in more than one physical
location.

**Scalability.** If your enterprise needs to grow, you want to ensure
your provider can scale. You need assurance that the provider has the
capacity and knowledge to scale quickly.

**Vendor neutrality.** An outsourcing partner committed to open
standards can keep costs low over time. A proprietary strategy tends to
lead to vendor lock-in, which can result in higher costs. You don’t want
to be “loyal” to a provider who gives you no choice.

### Outsourced IT with Rackspace

The mission of Rackspace is to provide ***Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***.
When you work with the industry leader in hosting, you are reducing the risk
of outsourcing IT. Our corporate history consists of perfecting new ways to
offer better outsourced IT for more than 13 years. We accomplish this
through our in-house software and Fanatical Support.

#### The Rackspace Software System

Our system for managing your IT infrastructure in our data centers was
built from the ground up to be the best in the market. Very early on, we
made the decision not to repurpose a platform that was built for
something else or to buy a third-party solution. We found that such
combinations don’t provide a good customer experience, which is
something we are obsessed with.

A single pane of glass = singular focus on you. When you call us, we
never ask you to repeat information. On one screen, our system displays
all tickets, servers, policies, emergency contacts, and procedures
associated with your account. Data center, server rack location,
firewall and security settings, billing history, contracts, and sales
information are one click away. Each customer page forms a customized
solution to providing a seamless managed hosting experience—which means
you get the answers and actions you need right away.

**We can scale.** Rackspace maintains hardware inventory at each of its
data centers. Hardware procurement is one of the slowest steps in
deploying new configurations. Rackspace avoids this by having network
and server gear available. We also offer a one-hour hardware-replacement
guarantee.

**We use our experience to customize your hosting solution.** When you
engage with Rackspace, we host your enterprise systems in whatever
configuration makes the most sense. If you’re a Web hosting company
focused on scaling up as needed, you might want a core managed hosting
environment, with high-speed networks connecting web and application
servers and a remote database in another facility that needs frequent
backups. Another company, like a global financial institution, might
have 20 departments, each with its own network and discrete security
requirements. We support virtually any combination of hardware and
software you can throw at us and help find the optimal solution for you.
We deploy 1,500 to 2,000 servers per month and support our customers as
teams, not just individuals. We’ve done this before. Your account is not
an experiment.

**We never lock you in.** We are vendor-agnostic and wholeheartedly
opposed to vendor lock-in, even when it comes to cloud software. We give
customers root access to their servers, as well as real-time control of
some network devices through the customer portal—yet we still support
them. We want our customers free to do whatever they want in the cloud
and in their dedicated hosting environments, with maximum flexibility to
choose and move between providers. That’s why we founded OpenStack. With
Openstack, we opened up our cloud computing code and partnered with
other key technology providers to help drive cloud innovation and
industry standards.

<img src="{% asset_path ProfessionalServices/outsourcing-it-a-matter-of-trust/rro_3.png %}" />

#### Fanatical Support<sup>&reg;</sup>

Fanatical Support is the hallmark of Rackspace’s corporate culture and
service model. We have a singular focus on providing the best hosting
services on the market. Hosting is not just a business line for us. It
is our business. Here are just a few of the fundamental tenets of
Fanatical Support.

**We want to know you and grow with you.** Our goal is to forge bonds
with our customers, and that starts and ends with our employees.
Consistently voted one of the best places to work in the US and the UK,
Rackspace employees work every day on truly understanding their
customers.

We reward innovation and efforts to maintain customer loyalty. We break
with traditional notions of dividing support teams into functional areas
such as security, system administration, and networking, which is
generically considered to be better for shifting workloads. Instead, we
have cross-disciplinary teams supporting each of our customer groups,
almost like small businesses within our company. When you call us, you
talk to someone who knows your configuration, and you won’t have to
explain anything. You get to know them by first name and vice versa.

**Bad news first, and no surprises.** Everyone talks about transparency
and “five 9s.” But if something ever goes wrong, we let you know. When
we had an outage in our data center a few years ago, we not only posted
updates frequently but our CEO explained it in a video . If something is
wrong, you will be the first to know, and we will be the first to act.
We help you diagnose the problem, work with other vendors, and help you
get up and running again. Even on December 25th at 3:00 AM (and yes,
we’ve done that before).

**Straight talk.** We want you to have total confidence in our
abilities. We walk you through as many details of our security policies
as you want to hear about. If we’ve ever had service or security issues,
we tell you exactly what happened, how we dealt with it, and what we
learned.

**The odds are better with hosting.** When the core of your business is
hosting, a problem in your data center isn’t just a bad day. At
Rackspace, we collect evidence from such rare incidents and make
improvements that elevate the whole industry. Some who fear letting go
of their IT assets cite public failures of cloud and hosting providers
as evidence for retaining internal control of assets. But we see it like
the difference between air and auto travel. Plane accidents and
hosting-provider crashes are exceedingly rare, but get lots of
publicity. Meanwhile, auto accidents happen all the time (with far more
fatalities), and so do corporate data- center problems. They’re just not
reported. Every time a service provider has a failure, it’s an
opportunity for the whole hosting industry to get that much better at
running an IT estate than any single IT department.

**Phone responsiveness.** We answer the phone in two rings. On the other
end of the line is a real person who actually works for Rackspace, not
some offshore third party. You can call us or chat with us live,
24x7x365. You will be routed to your team, who knows your configuration
and can quickly diagnose the issue or answer your question. Customers
receive their Account Managers’ phone numbers. We openly share
information and give our customers access to our C-level executives when
needed. How many service providers can say that?

**Empower the front line.** Rules can get in the way of great customer
service, so we empower our employees with very few rules beyond,
“Provide great customer service.” When you need to get home and an
airline employee puts you on the last flight of the day without a change
fee, even when it’s “technically against policy,” you remember that.
We’d rather someone make a mistake in your favor than follow policy to
the letter and disappoint you. You quite literally come first.

<img src="{% asset_path ProfessionalServices/outsourcing-it-a-matter-of-trust/rro_2a.png %}" width="421" height="284" />

**Practices**

We follow the highest level dictated by the ISO/IEC 27001 standard for
auditing controls as well as industry standard practices for securing
and accessing our data centers. We have all the controls in place,
including operating system and database best practices, physical
security, internal and external network security, employee security
(including background checks), and financial security. Our data centers
are so airtight that even our CEO can’t walk the floors without an
escort with the proper clearance.

### Conclusion

Rackspace mitigates the risks of outsourced IT by providing great
customer service, watertight best practices, and software built from the
ground up to run a dedicated, top-tier hosting business—our only
business. We understand that outsourcing IT is a substantial shift in
behavior and resource allocation for many of our customers, and we’re
here to guide you every step of the way. Solid SLAs, robust technology,
and solid data centers are really just the beginning of a quality
managed hosting business. In the end, the only way to truly gain your
trust is to earn it with Fanatical Support and by acting with integrity.
At Rackspace, that’s our specialty.

*Paul Croteau, Solutions Evangelist, Enterprise Marketing: Paul Croteau
is a 20-year I/T veteran that joined Rackspace in February of 2005.
After seven years as an engineer, he recently joined the Rackspace
enterprise marketing team. Prior to joining Rackspace Paul worked at
companies large and small -- most of which have been acquired and
changed names -- including Andersen Consulting, EDS, Data Return, SBC.
He has designed, installed, supported, account managed, sold and trained
in the I/T industry since 1991, taking a break in the mid- 1990s to
enroll in graduate school full time to earn an M.B.A at the Mays
Business School at Texas A&M University. He also holds a Bachelor of
Music from the University of North Texas, one of the most prestigious
music schools in the world.*
