---
permalink: should-you-put-email-archiving-in-the-cloud/
audit_date:
title: Should You Put Email Archiving in the Cloud?
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-05-31'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-16'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Email Hosting
product_url: email-hosting
---

### Benefits and Opportunities of Cloud-based Email Archiving

### Modern Business Lives in Email

Email is a vital component of modern business, and today more than ever,
your orders, quotes, correspondence with clients and suppliers can all
be stored in your email. Promises are made, and work is delivered and
stored in the individual email mailboxes for each of your staff. Email
today has become a method for having “things in writing,” as emails are
progressively viewed as documentary evidence in the same way as a formal
letter would have been 10 years ago.

Given the importance of business email, being able to store and easily
access, search and retrieve in and outbound email is critical.

In addition, as the dependence on email has grown, so has accompanying
legal scrutiny. Poor data retention practices can expose businesses of
all sizes and in all industries to a host of potential problems.

### What is Cloud-based Email Archiving?

[Cloud-delivered email
archiving](http://www.rackspace.com/email-hosting/archiving-backup/)
services provide companies of all sizes with an affordable, scalable and
feature-rich hosted email archiving service with search and retrieval
capabilities. As an on-demand, cloud-powered service, there’s no need to
install any additional hardware or software. Within a matter of minutes,
you will be archiving your email automatically.

The archiving system is easily searchable and accessible. Archive
retention policies can be defined that align with your specific
requirements. With access to massive storage capacity, companies can now
easily opt to retain a large amount of messages.

### Why Archive Your Emails to the Cloud?

One of the concerns that many organizational decision makers express
about the use of hosted archiving solutions focuses on the security of
their data. Many decision makers fear the SaaS provider may access
sensitive corporate data, or that data may be intercepted en route
between the customer and the data center where their data is stored.

In reality, security for cloud-hosted archiving services can be at least
as robust, if not more so, relative to in-house archiving deployments.
Several layers of security measures are employed to help keep customer
information secure. The [Rackspace Email
Archiving](http://www.rackspace.com/email-hosting/archiving-backup/)
solution uses SSL and Department of Defense AES encryption.

### Benefits of Email Archiving

#### Storage Management

An important driver for the deployment of messaging archiving is the
technology’s inherent ability to help organizations manage
messaging-related storage. A major concern of organizations managing
their own email archiving service is the unknown or unexpected growth of
email that could dramatically increase their burden and cost of their
storage infrastructure.

Cloud-based email archiving allows companies to eliminate this concern
by providing all users scalable storage at a single, fixed fee per
mailbox.

#### Preserving Corporate Knowledge is Critical

Because email is the primary way of communication and the main mode of
file transport for most organizations, email systems store enormous
amounts of corporate knowledge. Organizations that fail to adequately
preserve this knowledge face the risk of losing much of the productive
work that their employees have generated. By preserving this
information, employees and organizations can realize significant
benefits, not least of which is the ‘persistence’ of corporate data that
can be put to a wide variety of uses.

#### Email Retrieval

A more recent driver for the use of messaging archiving is electronic
discovery. A recent survey of enterprise IT and legal teams reports that
58% of e-discovery requests include email.1 A related application for
messaging archiving is litigation support. In this application, an
organization can review its relevant email content early in a legal
action in order to understand the viability of its position.

Because a growing proportion of most organizations’ business records are
stored in email, email messages are increasingly subject to discovery
orders during legal proceedings. Organizations must be able to capture,
store and readily produce this content.

Rackspace captures and indexes most internal and internet email and
makes it quickly discoverable through a simple-to-use web user
interface. Access to the search and discovery interface can also be
given to outside legal counsel through login provisioning to help
facilitate faster discovery.

### Why Rackspace Email Archiving?

The following sections show many benefits of this service, and you
can learn more about business email and email archiving services at
[www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/apps/email_hosting/)
or learn how to [enable Rackspace Email Archiving](/how-to/enable-email-archiving)
now.

#### Robust

We use cloud-compute infrastructure for its scalability and reliability.
Our unique and differentiated cloud-compute software stack harnesses
on-demand CPU and geographically dispersed storage to power archival
functions for data ingestion, indexing, search, retrieval and export.
Our system uses map-reduce style parallel processing to search very
large data sets with sub-second response times. Parallel processing is
only possible with cloud-compute CPU, taking advantage of the ability to
scale up in real-time so that every customer search experience is quick
and there is no waiting for jobs to complete.

#### Unlimited Storage

Adding archiving to your [hosted email
service](http://www.rackspace.com/email-hosting/) gives you capacity
that automatically grows to accommodate storage needs at an additional
flat, monthly, per mailbox fee. Regardless of how much email you add,
storage continues to scale without the accrual of additional fees.
Cloud-based storage allows for continuous data growth without the cost
and capacity issues that plague traditional storage architectures.

#### Ease of Use

With no hardware to buy or software to install, you can be up and
running immediately. The simple, intuitive web-based interface allows
for easy archive set up and our [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/) team
can provide guidance for you and your staff. Rapid search and retrieval for
individuals is available in their personal archive or across the whole
archive by authorized users, such as lawyers or compliance officers,
without burdening your IT staff.

#### Security

Data security exists at three levels: physical infrastructure, data
encryption, and the application layer. Our infrastructure layer meets
rigorous [PCI-DSS standards (Payment Card Industry Data Security
Standard)](http://www.rackspace.com/security/).

Several layers of security measures are employed to help keep customer
information secure. Archived data is encrypted and authenticated with
Department of Defense AES standards.

#### Budget and ROI

A fixed cost per user via a simple monthly subscription makes planning
easier. Migrating your email data into the cloud allows you to reduce
storage and maintenance costs, reallocate or eliminate servers, and trim
costs associated with retrieving your email.

#### Document Retention Requirements

Rackspace Email Archiving can also help customers in their efforts to
meet compliance requirements for document retention.

### Rackspace Email Portfolio

Our email portfolio includes:

-   **Rackspace Email:**

    Web-based, business email hosting with email, calendars, contacts, and more
    on your desktop or mobile

-   **Hosted Microsoft Exchange:**

    Advanced Outlook<sup<&reg;</sup> collaboration and optional push email for
    your mobile devices

-   **Exchange Hybrid:**

    Compared to using Hosted Exchange alone, a 50-user company can save
    40% by moving half of their users from Exchange to Rackspace Email.

-   **Rackspace Email Archiving:**

    Email retention and storage service allows you to restore lost
    email, take advantage of search tools, and protect vital email —
    without extra software or expensive hardware.

### Reference:

<sup>1</sup> [Information Retention and eDiscovery Survey Results | January
2013f](https://www4.symantec.com/Vrt/wl?tu_id=WUxz1359322571331770502)

### About Rackspace

Rackspace<sup>&reg;</sup> Hosting is the open cloud company, delivering
[open technologies](http://www.rackspace.com/open-cloud/) and powering
hundreds of thousands of customers worldwide. Rackspace provides its
renowned [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)
across a broad portfolio of IT products, including [Public
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/), [Private
Cloud](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private/), [Hybrid
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/) and [Dedicated
Hosting](http://www.rackspace.com/managed_hosting/dedicated_servers/).
The company offers choice, flexibility and freedom from vendor lock in.
