---
permalink: cashing-in-on-the-cloud-cio-idg-research/
audit_date:
title: Cashing in on Cloud - CIO/IDG Research
type: whitepaper
created_date: '2013-06-07'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2017-03-16'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: White Paper
product_url: white-paper
---

### Introduction

IT is now foundational to every business, meaning IT is either an
enabler or an obstacle to evolution, adaptation and growth. After all,
there is a strong correlation between IT agility and business
innovation. So the way business engages with IT is changing. Not only
charged with maintaining technology, IT is now responsible for
leveraging and optimizing available technologies to effectively drive
business value and enable growth through innovation. Accomplishing this
requires understanding and embracing technology opportunities and
following a checklist for growth as set forth in this paper.

### Understanding the evolving environment

In recent years, a host of disruptive technology trends—including
mobility, big data, virtualization and cloud—have significantly impacted
how businesses operate. As a direct result, agility and innovation have
taken center stage to satisfy the customer’s constant thirst for
creative new products and services.

The most progressive IT organizations are transitioning from functional
cost centers struggling to resolve day-to-day issues into
transformational and even strategic leaders capable of serving as true
partners to various lines of business (LOBs). And, even more
encouraging, the onslaught of new technologies means IT is in a position
to positively impact the organization’s growth potential. This shines
through in the November 2012 CIO Tech Poll: IT Economic Outlook, which
spotlights potential avenues where IT can impact business value.
Specifically, 81 percent of respondents see revenue growth as a crucial
priority.

However, revenue growth is only one of the key areas of opportunity.
Customer satisfaction (78 percent), improving product capabilities (69
percent), cost cutting (65 percent) and the ability to innovate for
competitive advantage (57 percent) all surface as crucial priorities as
IT leaders help navigate organizations through today’s ever-changing
business environment.

***“The IT center of the future is one that combines cloud when
necessary, on premise when it’s useful, virtualization when applicable.
And, all these resources need to connect together to best serve business
needs.” — Gerardo Dada, Director of Product Marketing Rackspace
Hosting***

### Embracing opportunity

Fortunately, IT leaders are openly accepting the challenge. According to
the 2013 CIO Magazine State of the CIO report, 63 percent of survey
respondents say the majority of their time and focus is spent on
aligning IT initiatives with business goals. When looking year-over-
year, this number only continues to blossom. In addition, improving
business value registers as a key strategic goal for IT leaders. Simply
put, IT leaders are looking for creative ways to better leverage
technology and in-house talent to advance their organizations.

CIOs see even further potential in serving as a true partner rather than
as a functional service provider. Within three to five years, many CIOs
aspire to spend their time on more strategic activities, including
driving business innovation (54 percent), developing and refining
business strategy (45 percent) and identifying opportunities for
competitive differentiation (41 percent).

As organizations move maintenance-intensive tasks into the cloud, IT
leaders have the ability to shift talents away from functional tactics
to perform revenue-generating development activities instead. As such,
CIOs are changing their hiring patterns, putting a constant focus on IT
talent with an understanding and appreciation for the growing need for
innovation and strategic alignment with the business.

The optimism bodes well for today’s organizations, yet achieving these
goals will undoubtedly require a calculated approach.

### Four step checklist for growth

#### Step 1: Seek understanding and alignment

A thorough understanding
and effective alignment of services with both the immediate and
long-term goals of LOB partners is undoubtedly the most crucial step in
delivering sustainable business value. As such, in embracing this
transformational role, IT must internalize the concept of offering IT as
a service. This represents a true evolution in the way IT operates,
transitioning from a reactive, functional, utility-like organization to
a proactive catalyst for better business outcomes — channeling savings
and efficiencies to new applications, services and initiatives that
advance key business goals.

For most IT organizations, alignment means meeting the business’s
growing desire for access to IT to be as simple as Google, as social as
Facebook and as fast as Amazon, explains Gerardo Dada. “The thought is,
if I can order any of 100,000 different products from Amazon and have
them at my doorstep in the morning, why does it take me 20 steps and two
weeks to order a PC from the IT department?” he says. “It is
incomprehensible for the modern worker, and the same expectation is
being applied to all aspects of the business.” As such, when a business
unit wants to create a new team or enter into a new geography, it
expects IT to be able to immediately address the various technology
requirements associated with adding 50 new employees, new websites,
etc.

The focus needs to be on leveraging today’s technologies in a way that
provides lines of business with self-service capabilities. In this
equation, IT still controls the information, still applies security
policies defined for the company and, most importantly, makes best use
of resources. However, the business team no longer has the excuse that
IT is too slow. Instead, IT is pushing the lines of business to move
faster through empowerment.

#### Step 2: Become an enabler

Currently, statistics show that IT
managers spend up to 80 percent of their resources maintaining and
updating old systems, leaving very limited time and resources to
innovate. Yet, fortunately, IT leadership responsibilities will change
significantly as organizations embrace a transformational model—giving
IT the opportunity to move beyond alignment to fulfilling the LOB needs.
Not only does this improve operations, it allows organizations to
leverage innovation, which in turn fuels revenue generation.

“Lines of business want to move faster in response to changes in the
marketplace, as well as the ability to do more testing, grow into new
geographies or change business models if necessary,” says Dada. “These
are all things that allow a company to grow, and at the same time each
has an IT dependency.”

This is why IT needs to reinvent itself as an enabler. The movement
around big data is a prime example. “It’s how you get smarter about the
customer, recognize growth opportunities and make better business
decisions. But big data is useless unless you can act on it. And, how
you act on it is through IT empowering the business with analysis,” he
says. “This is what allows an organization to enter new geographies or
ways of transacting business or launch new initiatives. This is where IT
wants to work.” This is where IT needs to work.

For IT to be an enabler, it must transition into an adaptive
organization with a [hybrid
model](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/). Rather than being an
owner of everything that happens, IT becomes a broker. In today’s model,
successful IT is really about coordinating while providing governance
and guidance. “When IT is responsive, it puts the burden to innovate on
the business,” he says. “IT is an enabler and coordinator rather than
the team that spends all of its time managing servers.”

#### Step 3: Assess enabling tools

Accomplishing this goal is most often
the direct result of embracing and deploying proven tools and solutions
that ignite innovation. While the specifics understandably vary by
organization, a properly structured cloud environment can help drive
innovation and expand opportunities for revenue generation.

Correctly planned, a [cloud deployment](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/)
provides the business with the flexibility to design, develop and deploy
market-ready solutions without having to procure costly infrastructure;
the responsiveness to answer market demands and shift focus without
completely retooling; and the scalability needed to embrace new
offerings.

Without the cumbersome need to deploy new, on-premise IT resources to
begin or complete a project, computing resources are available,
literally, at the flick of a switch. Within a cloud environment, lines
of business no longer need to wait for provisioning infrastructure,
which cuts the time from “idea to implementation” to mere minutes,
instead of the weeks or months it once took in a legacy world.

Cloud computing takes a lot of the day-to-day, non-value-add IT
headaches out of the equation. Server malfunctions, infrastructure
bottlenecks and other typical IT roadblocks no longer weigh on IT’s
shoulders, freeing those resources to innovate, whether that is
designing new products or working to boost the company’s competitive
edge.

By strategically deploying a cloud environment, IT leadership empowers
progressive teammates with the ability to experiment, elaborate on
prototypes and test potential new offerings—all typically impossible
with traditional infrastructure. IT essentially arms in-house staff to
capitalize on core competencies and generate value for the business by
moving key IT segments into the cloud and letting external experts keep
tabs on the day-to-day workings and ongoing maintenance of the
infrastructure.

In assessing the tools and technologies needed to make the transition,
it’s important to realize that it is software that allows IT to operate
using the “as a service” model. “You provision collaboration, big data
business intelligence, all as a service. This requires the use of tools
like the [cloud and open
standards](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/openstack/resources/) so that
things can move freely,” says Dada. “Of course, this is truly a journey
and is not something you are going to complete in a year. You need to
work with your business counterparts to always address areas of
opportunity and then find ways for IT to stay in alignment.”

It’s also important to realize the cloud is continually evolving —
meaning businesses need to avoid locking into one model that could
potentially cripple an organization’s ability to remain nimble in years
to come. Instead, businesses must find models that are flexible,
adaptive and embrace openness. “Marrying the organization with one
vendor or way of doing things makes it hard to evolve,” says Dada.

#### Step 4: Seek assistance

For IT, cloud should resemble a journey
that fosters a positive shift in both time and assets, so that in-house
talent can focus on offering market-ready innovations rather than
functional maintenance operations.

The idea is to look first at the standardized processes that add no
business value, but consume tons of resources—such as patching operating
systems, planning data center capacity or updating software. Managing
the [Exchange
server](http://www.rackspace.com/email-hosting/hosted-exchange/) is a
good example of a non-revenue-generating, high-maintenance, yet
business-critical workload frequently managed in the cloud. It is
complex and difficult, and mobility and security only prove to
complicate the task. Not to mention the hard and expensive-to-hire
skills required. Yet, everyone expects Exchange to just work. Having a
specialist handle this task frees IT resources for strategic
opportunities such as big data, elastic websites as well as testing and
development.

“While cloud, virtualization and other technologies can help, it is the
idea of outsourcing non-core IT responsibilities that can make a big
difference. Smart IT leaders are getting out of the data center business
because they understand it is a distraction to operate a data center and
they will never do as good a job as a specialist,” he says.

While there is great promise in a strategic cloud deployment, especially
through innovation, misguided cloud decisions could prove devastating.
Specifically, selecting the wrong platform could actually stifle
innovation.

Fortunately, there is no reason for IT to partake in the journey alone.
Aligning with a solid Managed Operations provider can play an
instrumental role in determining the best strategic fit. For instance,
the right provider should be able to demonstrate the value of
alternative cloud structures
([public](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/public),
[private](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private/),
[hybrid](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/hybrid/)) as well as help steer
the organization away from typical adoption pitfalls.

### Conclusion

Becoming a strategic enabler is an opportunity for IT to not only evolve
its operations, but also deliver value to the organization and its
various lines of business through continual innovation. And, in the end,
it’s enabling tools, like cloud, that make it all possible.

“The future is one where all technologies get connected so that there is
less control and more coordination,” says Dada. “The IT center of the
future is one that combines cloud when necessary, on premise when it’s
useful, virtualization when applicable. And, all these resources need to
connect together to best serve business needs.”

### About Rackspace enterprise cloud solutions

Powered by an elite team of Sr. IT Strategists, Architects, Solution
Engineers and Sr. IT Consultants, the [Rackspace Enterprise Cloud
Solutions](http://www.rackspace.com/enterprise_hosting/advisory_services/)
enables enterprises to harness the power of the hybrid cloud. Our
extensive Advisory & Professional Services portfolio offers end-to-end
solutions for our customers. Begin your [***Fanatical
Support<sup>&reg;</sup>***](http://www.rackspace.com/whyrackspace/support/)
experience with a complimentary [IT Evolution
Workshop](http://c1776742.cdn.cloudfiles.rackspacecloud.com/downloads/pdfs/CloudStrategyWorkshop.pdf),
where our strategists help to define a cloud strategy and actionable
roadmap that will propel your organization toward its optimized
solution. Contact us at 1-800-440-1249 or send us an email at
<advisory_services@rackspace.com> schedule your workshop today.

Continue the conversation in the [Enterprise Cloud Forum on
Linkedin](http://www.linkedin.com/groups/Enterprise-Cloud-Forum-4167570?goback=.anp_4167570_1360705132758_1)!
Along with 670+ other IT professionals, our Rackspace Senior IT
Strategists and Cloud Solution Architects debate some of the most
controversial topics facing the enterprise.

### About Rackspace

Rackspace Hosting is the open cloud company, delivering open
technologies and powering more than 205,000 customers worldwide.
Rackspace provides its renowned Fanatical Support across a broad
portfolio of IT products, including Public Cloud, Private Cloud, Hybrid
Hosting and Dedicated Hosting. The company offers choice, flexibility
and freedom from vendor lock in. Rackspace has been recognized by
Bloomberg BusinessWeek as a Top 100 Performing Technology Company and is
featured on Fortune’s list of 100 Best Companies to Work For.
